t1_d0pd51y
10
Currently Robbie Lawler is the Welterweight(170lbs) champion, but no, Diaz will not be fighting Lawler.

Alright, so, Conor McGregor is a fighter that fights in the Featherweight(145lbs) division. Before each fight, the fighters will weight in to make sure they are 145lbs or less. Most fighters at the highest levels will essentially starve themselves and dehydrate themselves the final week leading up to the fight, in order to drop a ton of weight. The night before the fight they intake a ton of water/food etc and gain their body weight back, so they are much heavier and stronger than they were when they weighed in the night before. So you can quickly come to the realization that Conor probably actually weighs quite a bit more than 145lbs, but by having the ability to cut so much weight, he gains an advantage by fighting mostly smaller guys if he can cut weight better than the rest of his division. Obviously he has to be a skilled fighter too, but size is definitely an advantage. 

Nate Diaz is a figher who has been fighting in the Lightweight(155lbs) division. They cut weight on that division like any other division. So naturally, we know that Diaz also weighs much more than 155 lbs normally. The same goes with Robbie Lawler (170lbs division). He also weighs more than his division's listed weight. 

Now, with this particular fight. It doesn't really mean that much imo. Conor has dominated the 145lb division so completely, that he wanted to move up in weight classes and fight bigger guys in the 155lb division. He was scheduled to fight Dos Anjos, the current Lightweight(155lb) champion. Dos Anjos however, had to back out of the fight due to injury sustained while training. At the last minute (11 days before the fight) the UFC had to find a replacement to fight Conor, in order to provide their customers with entertainment that they had planned on seeing this weekend. They gave Nate Diaz the call, and he agreed to fight Conor. Typically in a short notice replacement fight, fighters have been known to fight at a "Catch Weight". Essentially a weight in between the fighters because one has been training for months in anticipation of a fight, while replacements have often been resting, and aren't as in shape, ready to meet the rigorous conditioning and weight cutting requirements, etc. In a catch weight bout, there is no title on the line, it is purely a fight for the fans entertainment. This fight was rumored to originally be a 160 or 165lb catch weight I believe, but Conor is a huge advocate against weight cuts, and just said lets do it at 170 so Diaz isn't stressing his body last minute to cut weight. Again, that's the rumor I heard on this sub, but I don't have a source on hand. Also, gaining weight and fighting is not an easy task. The thing with added muscle is, that muscle has to be fed by oxygen, so anytime a fighter gains weight, they typically expend much much more energy when fighting than they would at a lower weight. Another side of the weight cut is, if you have dehydrated yourself too much a week before the fight in order to bring your weight down, you are also stressing your body, and might not have much energy to begin with. So there's a balance that fighters must find, and try to fit into a division that gives them the biggest advantage, while still maintaining as much strength and endurance as possible. 

So anyhow. Nate Diaz has always been an entertaining fighter, but he's had some losses here and there, and he's not necessarily seen as an elite Lightweight fighter right now. A very good one for sure though. He will definitely not be going to fight the 170lb Champ, as that guy is massively bigger than Diaz. He also isn't likely to get a straight title shot at Dos Anjos either, because he would be jumping a lot of fighters in that division ahead of him in line for Dos Anjos. What will most likely happen is, Dana White will give him a tough fight somewhere just below Dos Anjos, as a show of good faith for Diaz jumping in on short notice, and taking a fight with Conor to save UFC's Fight Event tonight. If Diaz has a good showing there, then he's likely to be thrust into a title shot, or a fight away from a title shot at 155lbs. 