t1_d0pq6b7
7
Diaz landed 60 percent (54 of 90) of his strikes in the second round after landing just 37 percent (23 of 62) in the first round.

What I noticed about diaz in almost all his fights: his first round is a lot of trying different things, basically figuring out his opponent. He gets tagged a lot but relies on his chin and skills to avoid anything fight ending. 

 Diaz was bleeding but he is almost always bleeding somewhere because he cuts so easy due excessive scar tissue. during the first Diaz was figuring out Conors range, typical combos and timing he was getting cracked a few times with the left. If you watch closely (which was what I was doing) as the fight wore on diaz was getting hit less and less. close doesnt mean anything, infact too many close calls shows me that diaz had the range figured out.

the biggest problems for conor was 1) Mcgregors style is very much a counter punchers game, similar to Silva he provoked an engagement then  would use his reach advantage and natural power to hit people before they could reach him. this was not there when he fought Diaz and suddenly he had to be the aggressor and that could not be maintained for a long time. 2) he was used to being stronger and that was no longer the case 

I think diaz did lose the first round but was winning the second round or too close to be really anything even before catching McGregor. The first round was fairly close too but Conor had the heavier punches so would have given it to him but he seemed to be scrambling and pushing forward a lot to catch diaz and wasnt as natural of a flow. 

also people really underestimate diaz punching. As he said after the fight, people suddenly become wrestlers when they get into trouble on their feet so he has a lot of submission wins. he doesnt give a fuck if its a KO on the feet. Nate and Nick also have this wacky high volume low energy jab that doesnt do much so their opponents get this false sense of security and can walk through it or trade but occasionally they both really try to put power behind one and catch people. 

in the end something seems to have clicked in Nate's game and has twice now made great fighters look silly.

note I have said all this before the fight when people were dismissing nate not as a fan of nate but as a MMA fan who thought the match up was legit.