{
    "Length": 26276, 
    "Comments": [
        "/r/MMAww", 
        "Gonna post some Junior dos Santos in there for sure.", 
        "Its actually.... a thing...", 
        "Well, this IS pretty adorable. ", 
        "Gotta say, I didn't expect that link to direct to an existing sub", 
        "I think it started with Cowboy and the toothpick being super friendly at the weigh in", 
        "Her scary side: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UN_SC0ybh_o", 
        "I wish she could teach me some moves.", 
        "Thanks for the ONE link -- that's another rabbit hole I've been sent down. ;-)  See everyone late tomorrow.", 
        "She could have kissed her as she finished her.\n\nKiss of Twister", 
        "I don't understand how that submission works at all. It looks like it's missing an antire side of the choke. Can someone explain? I'm guessing it's a neck crank.", 
        "Here's Eddie Bravo's breakdown of the twister. Its really good.\n\nhttps://youtu.be/p5KQ948H2ps", 
        "I read this comment before looking at the video, and my first guess was \"I bet it's a twister\". ", 
        "It's a spinal break. It's called a twister. You've isolated her spine and removed her ability to rotate her lower half of her body and you're twisting her spine. If you fully crank it you could permanently cripple someone. ", 
        "As far as I know (shit blue belt here) it is a pain submission, not a choke. the torque on the neck and spine causes the tap, not a loss of blood or air.", 
        "It's not a pain submission. You're isolating the spine, if you don't tap and they want to fully torque that, you can break their spine. ", 
        "Got that shit pulled on me as lowly white belt a couple of times. It was worse than some chokes.", 
        "ugh that would suck. the purples we rolled with as whites didn't pull any crazy subs, just sweeps and position control with the occasional armbar/triangle thrown in. kept us in check :)", 
        "I had a 130lb purple belt girl do that to me in my second practice ever.  I didn't know what was coming, I damn screamed \"uncle\" or in this case \"auntie\" haha.  I am a 220 lb dude.", 
        "It's not just a 'pain' submission, you can possibly break someone's neck/back with that move and permanently cripple them.", 
        "It's pain, but it also can do some serious damage to your neck and spine if you don't tap soon enough. It's a neck/ spinal crank.", 
        "I've never done it, but my understanding is it's a crank on the entire back.", 
        "If you look at angela, her legs have trapped her opponents's left leg. She has cross bodied (left leg to right shoulder) and reached over her shoulder grabbing her neck and head. This cross body puts torque on the lower spine, as her hips are twisting to the left and head/shoulder to the right. It also puts torque on her neck as a crank. This is called the twister. YouTube has many break downs that go further in depth.", 
        "Wow The Twister is my favorite submission.\n\nEdgy Brah!\n\nDefinitely paying attention to this chick from now on", 
        "Because folks like Angela and the Twister -- here is the full fight:\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFWSnEyDLPg", 
        "It's a different fight but still very entertaining, haven't seen this yet. She seems to enjoy punishing from position instead of going for the submission quickly. Almost sadistic... :D ", 
        "Sorry about that.  Must have cut and paste the wrong one.  Here are all four of Angela's ONE FC fights in order:\n\nAya Saber: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8WJKefa1nQM\n\nMona Samir: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFWSnEyDLPg\n\nNatalie Gonzales Hills: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IC3O7UklT5k\n\nLena Tkhorevska: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y0ZIsNQG1MM\n\nThe Gonzales Hills fight is the one with the Twister finish.\n\nAs for her extended ground and pound, I think she is trying to test or show different skills as she continues fighting.", 
        "Wtf. I trained with girl she beat, small world.", 
        "Sick scissor sweep before the finish. Don't see that one in MMA very often.", 
        "My back hurt just looking at that.\n\nFear the cute ones.", 
        "I'm sick that I missed the scissoring.", 
        ";)", 
        "Not even just the scissor sweep, but the twister finish... just freaking insane.", 
        "The twister was great.  Her opponent was clearly not familiar with the technique as she put her own arm behind Angela's head and trapped it there.  That is usually the hardest part of getting the twister. ", 
        "You gotta do the kung fu hands", 
        "Question here Connor! Which closed guard sweeps are most often used successfully in MMA? I'm still a 2 stripe white belt but I was under the impression that the scissor sweep is pretty common.", 
        "I'd go with \"none\", and how is the scissor sweep related to the closed guard in your book?", 
        "Don't know how you can say none, people have definitely been swept in closed guard in MMA before.\n\nScissors sweep is typically done from close guard.  Typically you get head and arm control, shrimp your hips out and then sweep. You could start it without closing your guard but it's more common to start from closed guard.", 
        "The scissor sweep is typically more effective in Gi than no gi/MMA.  The main reason for this is that a collar and sleeve grip is better than a collar tie/back of the head grip and wrist/tricep control.", 
        "I see sweeps more often from deep half in MMA.", 
        "Can you name some examples? I don't see much deep half in MMA, most notable one I can remember is Big Nog against Tim Sylvia.", 
        "The difficulty here is you have to trap the arm you're sweeping to obviously to isolate the post. Doing that may leave you open for a lot of easy shots and if your opponent at least high blue/purple, you're probably just going to eat shots and not finish the sweep. I notice a lot of deep half guard being used in MMA.\n\nNote, this is just me assuming. Not really much experience at all aside from training.", 
        "There aren't many closed guard sweeps at all in elite MMA. Most sweeps tend to come from half guard or butterfly guard. But the most common closed guard sweep, as far as I can tell, is the hip bump.", 
        "Never heard of her before, but just watched some fights online. Super young, undefeated, impressive balance of submissions striking and takedowns. I'd wager we see her make UFC debut within 2-3 years if not sooner.", 
        "You should check out her brother too.  I think he will make it also", 
        "Submissions and takedowns are sick.\n\nShe gets lit up on her feet though.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QX5TXJhqabM", 
        "That was the ugliest human pretzel I've seen in an octagon. Can someone explain why none of the the 1000 heel hooks/knee bars/calf cranks didn't work in the first round?", 
        "Heel Hooks are mainly a knee submission. Therefore for it to work the knee cannot have any room to move before it starts hurting. On their attempts the knee was not isolated enough to start tearing the ligaments. Sometimes you can do away with strength and less flexible opponents, but in this case they didn't had strength or room to crank more.", 
        "I didn't see any knee bars or calf crank. But as for the heel hooks I think it was because she wasn't able to a good bend in the knee like paul harris [here](http://www.bjjee.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Rousimar-Palhares-heel-hooks-Dave-Branch-Zuffa-415x280.jpg). I think it has something to do with keeping the hip in place as torque is applied to the knee.", 
        "Would love to hear a professional analysis of that match. Ugly perhaps, but no shortage of action for sure.", 
        "did I just fall in love?", 
        "... with an Asian?", 
        "no i did", 
        "I just felt that same feeling", 
        "Yes. I did", 
        "I feel like I'm cheating on Joanna just by watching this for the 11th time.", 
        "shhh it's ok", 
        "Dat hair bounce. ", 
        "Why you talking about my girl?", 
        "I called dibs on her tho!", 
        "fite me irl ", 
        "Fight me in fake life", 
        "Would be great if Shane replied to this with \"ok\".", 
        "I'll fight both you cunts I saw her first", 
        "I train joo jitsoo so go ahead and try me", 
        "oh my god jew jif shoes", 
        "Back off my chick yo, my digicam belt in Krav/ninjitsu says I can take you all. ", 
        "I do UFC, come at me bro.", 
        "I've been trailing Bellator. It's the new hardcore shit. ", 
        "You lot bring all your friends, [I'll show up alone as well](http://i.imgur.com/YKZA6US.gif)", 
        "Get in my guard! ", 
        "I train Jewjitsu. I'll see you in court. ", 
        "You sonuvabitch! I replied with \"Jew JitSue FTW! Lay one hand on me, and oy vey! I'll see your ass in court\"\n\nThen i scrolled down and seen you beat me to it. Touch\u00e9 ya bastard.\n", 
        "Krav Maga, the real jewish art.", 
        "So good", 
        "She be getting lucrative, Joe. ", 
        "Nope - the UFC has no idea how to promote non-grudge match fights.", 
        "what are you talking about ya goof? most fights aren't grudge matches", 
        "The point is, most of the heavily promoted fights are.", 
        "obviously", 
        "Sage Northcutt seemed to be hyped pretty good, and that definitely was not a grudge match..", 
        "But that was a really stupid way of hyping him.", 
        "Yeah if anything the bungling of that situation proves the point. They hitched their wagon to a fucking 19 yr old pretty boy with no ground game. Billed him as the future of the company while real prospects with bona-fide credentials are left out in the lurch, promotionally speaking. Sage may yet prove to be a legitimate force (I don't see it) but they should have never pushed him or PVZ in the giddy/overt manner in which they did.", 
        "> Nope - the UFC has no idea how to promote non-grudge match fights.\n\n\nYet it worked enough to pay him 40k/40k.  That's all I am saying.  It was successful, he is still talked about, and still has a bright future.", 
        "That is yet another indictment on the ufc. Paying an unknown commodity more than he is worth and grossly under paying vets and proven contenders. Good for Sage and his father for exploiting leverage but that says nothing complimentary about this company's baffling ineptitude in the area of promotionally captivating ad campaigns outside of selling bad blood or knowing when to get out of the way in the case of Mcgregor,Chael, etc. ", 
        "They don't sell bad blood either really, the fighters do. For example how often do you see Conor being promoted by the UFC? It's all him on Social Media or talking shit at a press conference, not like there airing shit talking Conor commercials.", 
        "No ground game? He's got ground game. Getting beat once while on the ground doesn't mean he's got no ground game.", 
        "Hence instant rematches galore. ", 
        "I think the flounce upon failure is what really sells it.", 
        "She needs to be signed to a Shampoo sponsorship asap.", 
        "Thanks for the new word. ", 
        "> think", 
        "What does it mean??", 
        "whoa shes beautiful", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You deserves those downvotes for having your own personal definition of attractiveness and for not creaming yourself over any female fighter who's not ugly", 
        "*[I was also replying to the now deleted parent comment]*\n\nYou need to learn that on /r/MMA you need to agree with everyone. There's no such thing as the right to a personal opinion. Sad, but true! \n\nI do think she's pretty hot, but I would never down vote someone for having a different opinion. The lack of tolerance is the ugly side of this sub, which is a shame :/", 
        "Fuck that, the down votes keep this sub alive. I love seeing someone get slammed for having an opinion. ", 
        "I'm down to see anyone get slammed in any form or fashion. In text, in the porn subs, or /mma/.", 
        "Who the fuck do you think you are? Leaving a reasonable and friendly response to me when I didn't say Angela Lee is the most beautiful creature alive.  I'm not even saying that she's ugly, I'm just saying it's okay that the other guy doesn't consider her beautiful! \n\nAh well, sure fuck it", 
        "Your mic is on. ", 
        "[Youuu...](http://i.imgur.com/IOrW02o.gifv)", 
        "So much marketability.", 
        "Ice Cube said it best: It's all in the lip", 
        "Aww that's terrifying ", 
        "I sure hope that she has a fetish for middle aged men who spend all of their spare time in Internet chat rooms.\n\nIt's my only chance..", 
        "When does she fight next and how do I watch it?  - from serious mma viewer", 
        "Her ig said in 2 days. Look up one fc stream I guess ", 
        "7:30 pm Saturday in Jakarta which is 12:30pm in London or 7:30am in New York.", 
        "808!", 
        "Joanna has competition for cutest P4P", 
        "She's already behind DC in that category.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "she is cute as fuck", 
        "Michelle Waterson + Angela = new crushes. ", 
        "r/asiangirlsbeingcute\n\n", 
        "so much cringe", 
        "This is reddit bro. You can't offend what white people love.", 
        "Imagine the self-worth of people who think that girls acting retarded is attractive. These people need help.", 
        "It is nice seeing extra personality in these clips. It humanizes fighters to more than just machines to me.", 
        "Angela Lee vs Rena Kubota for Undisputed Cutie Champ", 
        "[\"Shadow\" boxing](http://www.ctvnews.ca/polopoly_fs/1.2693111.1449674037!/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/landscape_620/image.jpg)", 
        "She is super cute", 
        "cute", 
        "So kawaii ", 
        "shes just too darn cute", 
        "She needs to learn from [Kanye](http://i.imgur.com/iY2IKH1.gifv).", 
        "The GOAT.", 
        "P4P cutest contender ", 
        "That is really cute. ", 
        "definitely a lot of charisma, hope her career continues to flourish", 
        "if she wins this fight, get her to ufc or bellator already", 
        "I see potential", 
        "I don't get it...? Where's the \"fail\"?", 
        "she's cute and manly at the same time", 
        "Asians should get handicap points in MMA.", 
        "Adorable.", 
        "One of the cutest little wrecking balls of death I have seen in a long while", 
        "That's adorable.", 
        "damn she is cute but a killer too I've seen her last two fights in ONE, she is dominant", 
        "Kawaii~~~!!! X3", 
        "http://imoviequotes.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/10-Dumb-and-Dumber-quotes.jpg", 
        "<3", 
        "XD", 
        "Angela Lee numba one Waifu \u270c", 
        "fwd: Dana White \n\nsign this lady", 
        "Something something marketable", 
        "i wanna market her bruhs", 
        "you guys are easily impressed, i get 10 chicks like her on the weekends.", 
        "Y no topless???", 
        "Ariel:\n\nIf you\u2019re clamoring for Edgar, he\u2019s unavailable, I\u2019m told. Dealing w/ an injury. There aren\u2019t a ton of options. You can probably guess em.", 
        "I hear Chad isn't busy.", 
        "The cut to 145 would be extremely taxing for Conor anyway. No way they planned to be able to cut the extra weight in such a short period.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Chad wasn't preparing to fight at 155lbs afaik.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "From his walk around weight as a 145lb fighter. Not many fighters are going to carry 10lbs of fat and move up a division thinking that helps. Conor will have stacked on 8-10lbs of muscle for this.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Where did I say he didn't take PEDs?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "As long as he eats at a calorific surplus, he can do all the cardio he wants and still gain muscle at a reasonable rate and that's just basic stuff. Let alone the the types of steroids he'd actually used and the timing/nutrition behind them.", 
        "More than likely going to need to bump up the co main, and get another fight in there that will hopefully assist in saving the card a bit. \n\nI can only imagine how ticket holders feel right now :(", 
        "Conor will still fight. Would be interesting to see if they bump him to co though, it's arguably still a bigger fight, despite the lack of a title.", 
        "Would be awesome if he still does. Hope it's one of the speculated picks.", 
        "It would have been at 155 ", 
        "And for no belt? Makes zero sense business-wise.", 
        "Fuck it give him the money anyways for having to balls to fight and not get hurt all the fucking time.", 
        "I wouldn't say zero sense business-wise.  It gives the UFC a chance to showcase Connor at a heavier weight.  ", 
        "> Connor\n\nWho's Connor? *Rhonda*'s friend?", 
        "Well it's the fight that is happening as the next 145 title defence. Doesn't make any sense to do a preview with nothing on the line. Now is the perfect time to have Connor fight Diaz or Cowboy as they're nowhere to getting title shots or keeping up with Connor's trajectory.", 
        "Anderson Silva fought a couple non title fights while middleweight champion. Most people don't care about the shiny belt they just want to see the best guys fight.", 
        "Against people his next fights were likely to be against anyway though? Don't think that's true - not suggesting he won't or shouldn't fight though. He 100% will.", 
        "His next fight is supposed to be a fw title fight according to him and dana. An interim title would be laughably pathetic and a weight cut would be really dumb. He either pulls out or fights for no belt.", 
        "That was on the assumption the RDA one went ahead. We don't know how this shakes things up now.", 
        "imagine if edgar edged a razor decision win and they rematched for the belt @ 145? That would be fucking massive. ", 
        "And if Conor dumpsters him? Bye goes Edgar's title shot. If Dana wants the Aldo rematch next then that would work I guess.", 
        "Make it for an interim belt", 
        "Again, Edgar is the wrong guy to get a shot at that. Imagine how much it ties up the division. You'd maybe not get to get to see an actual contender vs RDA for maybe 6-9 months?", 
        "Interim, but that would rule Edgar out I'm guessing. But it's the UFC so, who knows!", 
        "Interim is not happening, Dos Anjos just fought a month or two ago. ", 
        "Interim LW belt vs Edgar when you have actual contender currently towards the end of their camps? Not saying it's an awful idea but if you out together a shortlist and ignore Edgar being injured, he's near the bottom.", 
        "Didnt even Think of this, is McGregor pulling the same shit as against Mendes and demand this fight be for an interim lightweight title?", 
        "I'm not sure if he'd want the 'fake' belt in this case, depends how confident he is vs RDA. In his mind he IS the main event though. Nothing less.", 
        "You don't make money if you're not fighting and you can't lose a belt for a last minute injury replacement if it's not the weight class you're champion in. Makes sense to me.", 
        "Frankie wants the belt so it wouldn't make much sense for him unless he really needed the cash", 
        "Who said not fighting? As I've said in other comments, there couldn't be a better time to do a Diaz or Cowboy fight IMO.", 
        "Fuck it, break Conor's foot and let them fight.", 
        "Fuck it, get lawler in for the WW strap. We're talking legacy here people!", 
        "i actually like this idea ", 
        "Yes please ! i don't know what to do with my life now", 
        "[You sir](https://i.imgur.com/9HC6FK7.gif)", 
        "Anderson Silva's gay brother seems to disagree though.", 
        "You show Todd some respect!", 
        "He is just crazy enough to go for it", 
        "Guaranteed he asks to see RDAs xray first. I wanna see it myself.", 
        "Hell he could have broken it on purpose. Everyone seems afraid of Connor. And for good reason. ", 
        "can you spell his name correctly\n\nEdit wow that in text seams real bitchy, put it does slightly annoy me.  Mac instead of Mc as well. do people not notice or am i to picky. \n\nEdit: My windows are all now broken. Still believe people should spell others name correctly. ", 
        "SEAMS!!!! LOL! You're the one who can't spell dude", 
        "Muprhys Law", 
        "Believe I did. But posted from my phone so autocorrect is like naah. ", 
        "* seams - seems\n* put - but\n* to - too\n\nDude, glass houses and everything...", 
        "Touch\u00e9  \nA classic example of Muprhy's law. \nYes Muprhy's, not Murphy's.", 
        "Rekt", 
        "You mean Condor MacGregor?", 
        "maybe he did it on purpose maybe not. thats a huge payday loss for rda. rda would've made around 7 million for the fight (aldo made 5 million against conor). also this messes up the relationship with rda and the ufc. i have my tin hat on...maybe rda wants to see how conor performs at 155 against someone else first. i would love to see the x-ray. fuck im so sad...this fight was gonna change my bum life on march 5th. ", 
        "I think that the point was that if he was going to fake it, he would probably fake it well and actually break his leg.", 
        "he might have intentionally broken his foot. one kick to the shin or elbow. thats the only way he could have broken it sparring...on the shin or elbow. ", 
        "I want to see it as well, but I believe it is legit. You know RDA wants that red panty night.", 
        "It's his new training schedule. He now is only fighting every dos a\u00f1os.", 
        "[Take it](https://i.imgur.com/4EWbQew.gifv) ", 
        "Dos Anjos by name, Dos Anjos by nature.", 
        "This is great haha", 
        "The ultimate trick to become the longest reigning champion of all time.", 
        "Great joke, however, it really grinds my gears how many people forget that in Brazil we speak Portuguese, not Spanish :/ \"A\u00f1os\" is not even a word. His name refers to angels (dos Anjos == something like \"from angels\").\nNonetheless, I have to admit that your version is WAY better then the real one :)", 
        "No ~ on that n and that sentence would have taken a whole different meaning. ", 
        "Hihihi", 
        "portuguese J is pronounced more like a soft english j, a zh sound. not sure where this spanish shit is coming from.\n\nanjos means angels, and dos means \"of the\". two is \"dois\". years is \"anos\"", 
        "If you are Brazilian sorry for butchering your language for the sake of a pun... But I am from Chile so my instruct naturally goes towards Spanish... I guess I could have gone with my first choice of comments; \"Maybe his dad should have pulled out.\"... But I'm glad I went with dos a\u00f1os :)", 
        "I don't get it :( ", 
        "In Spanish:\n\ndos = 2\n\na\u00f1os = years", 
        "Now I get it! LOL", 
        "Have some gold. Can't remember the last time I laughed so hard at a comment on reddit.", 
        "Thank you so much... I can't believe my first gold ever came from a silly pun... Thanks again!!!", 
        "youuuuuu", 
        "[MFW] (http://i.imgur.com/lgrosrN.gif)", 
        "Crank dat, soulja boy", 
        "Yes, you're a fucking genius, now get the fuck out.", 
        "Username on point", 
        "For both.", 
        "No that was funny!", 
        "I tested positive for malaria three days ago and this might be the worst news I've got all week.\n\nEdit: my bad it was actually 2 days ago that I took the malaria test, which was Sunday, so it technically was this week for all the people getting technical about it.  Also I'm in the Peruvian Amazon for all those curious and I happen to be flying to Lima on the 5th so timing was perfect.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Nobody cares about your comment either.", 
        "I just lost my eyesight in an unfortunate saw accident and this is the worst news I've heard all week", 
        "Edit: Geez..", 
        "Not sure how many days are in your week, but I'm fairly sure it's still a period of 7 days. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What, to get rid of the abundance I have?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I was only trying to counter-joke, I wasn't trying to be a snotty prick", 
        "Still has malaria seems up there on bad shit going on for him this week too.", 
        "Does anybody think RDA could have pulled through and fought through this injury? Thoughts? ", 
        "no one cares about your malaria there are real issues here.", 
        "So, you're definitely ruling yourself out of fighting Conor? ", 
        "Have fun bro I had malaria when I was growing up and it was pretty shit tbh", 
        "Stan", 
        "Yea, well. Three days ago was last week.", 
        "Hahaha so good ", 
        "hehehe #onceandfutureking", 
        "You live in Africa bro?", 
        "He's white! *just kidding*", 
        "No I just happen to be in the Peruvian Amazon right now.  Flying to Lima on the 5th, which I booked before the Connor fight was set, so timing was going to be perfect.", 
        "No, I import cambodian breast milk and got a bad batch. from now on i only drink the finest cambodian breast milk, no more groupon bullshit.", 
        "*chopping onions", 
        "you gotta go to queens for the pure shit, and imma need a set of lefty golf clubs before I open up the studio again ", 
        "u need some suuga cookies to go with that breast milk. also im shutting the studio down, again, yall aint spittin enough hot fire. ", 
        "You can't get malaria from milk... Milk is in fact anti-malaria.", 
        ">Liberia flair", 
        "I'm howling.", 
        "I only drink the finest breastmilks.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JKhiSs2VRpg", 
        "I'm shuttin' the studio down!", 
        " #justDittythings", 
        "Bruh ... Diddy ", 
        "Don't worry, he'll change it to Ditty by next week", 
        "Maybe he like short, catchy tunes.", 
        "Breeeeeeeast milk. You made my dayaaaaayyyy. ", 
        "This comment made my dayyeeyaayyy!", 
        "I'm shutting down the studio", 
        "See, you are messing up buying the discount titty milk. That's why I only shop at Tilk.com, the only titty milk distributor you can trust.", 
        "PKA BABY", 
        "Was hoping a pka fan would see that.", 
        "I was surprised when I couldnt find a RSK or PKA comment so I had to add my own", 
        "Use code word \"ROGAN\" and save yourself 10% on any and all titty milk purchases.", 
        "I think we should try convince him that breast milk is actually a good supplement.\n\nActually maybe breast milk is a good supplement.", 
        "I'll make it my personal mission to find out...for science!", 
        "it's loaded with anabolic peptides, i remember reading about how raw milk while still alive is chock full of GH peptides and other growth factors. problem is we kill milk when we process it to sell it in a store, so you need to go straight titty to mouth. ", 
        "That's ONTIT, O-N-T-I-T", 
        "Do you reckon i should put some MCT oil in with my titty milk?", 
        "Forget double blind tests, it comes directly from double blind cambodian women.", 
        "\"Fuck That, Conor McGregor, you're taking everything I worked for, mother fucker. I'm gonna fight your fucking ass. You know what's the real fight, what's the real money fight -- me. Not these clowns that you already punked at the press conference. Ain't nobody wants to see that. You know you can beat them already. It's an easy fight. You want the real shit. Right here.\"\n\nedit: unedited the swear words and stuff", 
        "who said that?", 
        "Nate Diaz, of course. Rogan was even more uncomfortable during that interview than he was with Brock at UFC 100", 
        "> uncomfortable\n\n?\n\nrogan was loving it", 
        "I doubt Rogan had any personal issues with Nate talking like that, but he definitely had someone screaming in his ear telling him to get him off the air", 
        "oh 100%", 
        "Nate diaz", 
        "A gentleman's (brother) never tells.", 
        "Kenny Florian", 
        "First time in a long time that this joke actually works.", 
        "Ya know, the joke died pretty quickly, for once. Probably because it got overused even by Reddit standards. Five times in one thread because everyone is a fucking hilarious guy.", 
        "I felt bad for posting that tired, overused meme. But it just seemed the perfect moment.", 
        "Because it was! The problem comes from the other jackholes using it too much.", 
        "-Kenny Florian\n\nLike that?", 
        "What is this from?", 
        "Diaz said that after one of his recent fights", 
        "Then the \"Unfortunately, we can't talk like that on Fox.\" from Joe Rogan lol ", 
        "I liked the censored version better.\n\nF--------------------------------------------- worked f-------------------------------- press conference. ------------------- ight. You want the r-------------.", 
        "It was the first time I watched an MMA event and actually couldn't hold my laughter, especially when it was just a monotonous silence for what seemed like 10 seconds, then one or two words and another few seconds of just muted swearing.", 
        "Well, Cowboy did say he wanted a fight at UFC 196...", 
        "That probably makes the most sense. It's too bad though because as much as I like Cowboy and dislike Connor I think that this would be a slaughter. Cowboys aggressive style seems tailor made for Connors mastery of footwork and angles..", 
        "I really hope they don't do this garbage.\n\nEdit: does anyone on this sub have their own opinion or just circle jerk all day? How would beating Cowboy on short notice do ANYTHING for McGregors career? Please explain to me and I'll admit my fault. ", 
        "You don't want to see Cowboy/McGregor? ", 
        "Hate all you want, but not at all. Cowboy fights every week, loses everytime he's touched in the body. I don't think he should be considered on the level to fight the biggest draw in the sport. \n\nedit: I get there isn't much out there, but Cowboy is the last I'd want to see. Push the fight to 200 and wait for RDA if possible or let Nate jump in. If not, at this point, I think McGregor can choose to not fight at 198 now, if the fight isn't worth it. AKA; Cowboy. I don't see how beating Cowboy on 2 week notice will better McGregor's career.", 
        "I think it's more about giving McGregor a meaningful fight. Cerrone still has to rebuild his shot at the title.\n\nIf Conor beats him, it doesn't mean much. Even if he pressures the UFC into making them fight over an interim belt.", 
        "I have no clue why you are getting downvoted but I'm with you 100%. There is no reason for Conor to fight anyone but a champ in a different division. Hell, I doubt he can make 145 now so fighting Frankie would be off the table too. ", 
        "I don't know why you're getting downvoted.\n\n\nThere is absolutely NO benefit to Conor taking on Cowboy. None. He can only lose out from it. The people who want to see it would also want to see Hulk Hogan versus the Incredible Hulk in an open weight...they're not thinking about whether it would be good for MMA or the fighter's career.", 
        "People in this sub just downvote when they see other people doing it. Nobody thinks rationally.", 
        "And he does seem to have a general disdain for Conor.", 
        "Wolftickets bro.", 
        "DUDE, didn't think of that....", 
        "I hope it's cowboy. Please cowboy we need you!", 
        "Agreed.  He didn't take any damage and he\"s got almost two weeks.  That's practically a full camp for him. ", 
        "We all were thinking the same thing when we first saw this headline.", 
        "I didn't want to say it before it happened... ", 
        "Cowboy vs McGregor is a bigger draw imo", 
        "No chance, Cowboy chokes every big opportunity, RDA v Conor is way bigger. ", 
        "> Cowboy chokes every big opportunity\n\nHey! You don't say that!!", 
        "I love them both for the obvious reasons. I think it would be an awesome highlight of Cowboy's career to beat Mcgregor after fighting a few weeks prior. Or Mcgregor goes all Mystic Mac and proves he can survive in the division.\n\nPlus the shit-talking, God I can't wait for the shit-talking.", 
        "Could Cowboy make it back down to 155 in less than 2 weeks?", 
        "its happening! \n", 
        "I'd think so. He did just fight there in December. I doubt he's put on that much muscle.", 
        "Dada did 40 and he was fine /s", 
        "Considering how McG built himself into a brick shit house, I could see catch weight, but I doubt this is happening without a title.", 
        "The coveted 162.5lb belt!", 
        "It will be called McGregor-weight", 
        "They'd fight at like 159 catch weight or something. ", 
        "He might have to lop off one his massive testicles but i think he'd back himself to get below 156 for this fight. ", 
        "Dude, if he lopped off one ball he'd be a flyweight. \n\nDude's the real people's champion.  ", 
        "Not sure f Cowboy could make weight in 12 days. He just fought at 170.", 
        "Catch weight fight.", 
        "That's what I was just thinking. No way they could have a title fight, it's just too short notice. ", 
        "He's at 174 right now. I assume if camps agreed he could get as close to weight as possible with no monetary penalty. ", 
        "He posted on IG the week before the Oliveira fight that he was at 176, no cut. Cutting to 155 from there wouldn't be impossible.", 
        "I'd put money on it that he could. 25 pounds (assuming he's only walking around at 180) in two weeks (almost). ", 
        "Catchweight since it is short notice - make it 160-165.  There is no belt on the line anymore anyways", 
        "He just needs to get on the Dada5000 weight loss program and he'll be able to fight in any division he wants...", 
        "Catch weight (read: fight at WW) at 170, then McGregor doesn't have to cut weight and Cowboy only has a minimal amount to cut.", 
        "Catch weight ?", 
        "does the weight really matter with no belt on the line? do it at 160 or 165. conor isn't going to make a fuss over a few lbs after talking about fighting violent bob lawler @ 170 where he would be giving up 20+ lbs. ", 
        "Was thinking the same thing. I'd guess he's walking around at 180 now. On the other hand, he is coming off of a camp and is already in shape. ", 
        "Dave Meltzer said Conor is already above 180 pounds, too. So basically the same cut.", 
        "He couldn't have added significant natural muscle weight in 2 months.\n\nRemember he JUST fought at 155 in December. ", 
        "Which means he was probably walking around at 170 (if not higher) in December.\n\n\n\nTen pounds gained in 2 months (not all of it muscle, naturally) is conceivable. ", 
        "so.. 3-4 pounds of muscle at most added?  \n\nThe fat shouldn't be that hard to cut off.  The challenge will be starting it ASAP.\n\nI'm betting Cerrone started cutting the MOMENT he got word that RDA was pulling", 
        "Yes, yes and yes.", 
        "174's what I heard ", 
        "has to be Cowboy/Nate", 
        "I hope it's not cowboy cause I actually like him and don't wanna see him get his shit slapped. ", 
        " Conor vrs cowboy cerrone or nate diaz. That would be CRAZY", 
        "idk if cowboy would make weight on 2 weeks and i'm pretty confident nate can't pass a drug test on 2 weeks notice.", 
        "the snake?", 
        "To me Nate Diaz is the obvious choice, they can throw together an amazing promo, it's fan friendly and it would be a fun fight, Nate also is pretty durable so I think it could be a more competitive fight than people would think, still think McGregor would destroy him though", 
        "Either of these would make me hard.", 
        "Could you imagine if Cowboy or Nate comes in and just straight up wrecks McGregor within one round?", 
        "I wish I could, but I can't. I can't imagine Cerrone beating any top tier fighter. ", 
        "There would be so many flair changes it would probably break reddit.  Remember how many Ronda fans were around before she got her face kicked in?  I'm pretty sure those people are all \"Team McGregor\" and proud of their Irish heritage now.", 
        "I remember the days back in... athlone, with... mo chairde, it was great... craic.", 
        "I love cowboy but he would get fucked up.", 
        "But could Cowboy make weight?", 
        "RDA just dummied Cowboy in December. To me it doesn't make sense for McGregor to agree to fight him as he has nothing to gain from it. If McGregor wins, RDA will just be like \"well yes, I beat him too.\"", 
        "Yeah but realistically what does that matter? RDA is in no position to be snooty about who Conor fights. ", 
        "You're right. Though I think McGregor would flat out reject that match up for that same reason.", 
        "Cerrone dusted off his BJJ last fight. He could do it again. ", 
        "I like Cowboy too but I think he'd be napping in the first minute or two if McGregor pushed it that way.  Sure, go ahead Cowboy, stand there in that tall Muay Thai stance and back straight up and not move your head.  Night night.", 
        "Unless Cerronne just takes him down and subs him.", 
        "This reminds me of the thought behind Rousey vs. Holm.  The experience level doesn't have as great a gap between Cerrone and McGregor but what McGregor does with his level of striking and movement is miles beyond what Cerrone shows in the ring, but not necessarily what Cerrone is capable of.", 
        "The main difference is that Cerrone can shoot in on his hips when he throws the straight, which Ronda couldn't.  Conor has a clear advantage on the feet, but i can see Cerrone's kicks giving him trouble on the outside and his knees/elbows in close.  I'd probably pick Conor, but not confidently.", 
        "We also have to factor the weight difference especially when it comes to grappling.", 
        "Yeah, that's true.", 
        "If Cowboy got it to the ground he could probably end it instantly. I think this is a pretty good test for Conor.", 
        "Yeah, like Mendes ended it on the gro....oh, wait...", 
        "It's almost as if Mendes, a shorter and lighter fighter is somehow...different?...than Cerrone. We need Firas to sort this shit out immediately. ", 
        "Its a joke dude, chill. ", 
        "Cowboy is a completely different type of threat on the ground. ", 
        "I imagine Conor would clown on Cowboy's striking on twitter or in a press conference which would make Cowboy do the stupid thing and try to get a slow-burn tko. If he went to take him down as soon as he had an opportunity, it wouldn't be a contest. You saw how slick that mounted triangle was?", 
        "I think I came during that triangle", 
        "Didn't we all?", 
        "Pretty big if though.", 
        "I hope it's Nate just because of the amount of shit talking that will happen.", 
        "no, no, No, No, NO, NO NO NO! NO!\n\nWe need MONTHS of shit talking! Two weeks is not nearly enough of a buildup for that. ", 
        "It would kind of be a shame if they did Conor vs Nate with so little build up. If they ever fight I want at least 3 months of back and forth shit talking. ", 
        "> It would kind of be a shame if they did Connor vs Nate with so little build up. If they ever fight I want at least 3 months of back and forth shit talking. \n\nI was mad when i started reading your first sentence and then I was like .....fuck, the man is right. He is SOOOOO right.  Damn it. :(\n\n\nedit: and here we are, cant say I am mad though!", 
        "do you think conor would take that fight tho? im going to go out on a limb here and say no way hes going to fight if its not for the title. ", 
        "I would at least want to see Nate have a chance at a full camp.  I know him and his brother tend to stay in shape all the time, but  short notice is probably not the way to go.  That fight needs to happen though.", 
        "They could probably do 3 months worth in 2 weeks, those guys are all-star trash flingers.", 
        "it's like Bisping VS Sonnen, i was so salty we missed out on sonnen talking shit while bisping pointed at him.", 
        "I don't think they could go that long without Nate bitch slapping him", 
        "Neither do I mate, which is precisely why I want to see it.", 
        "For Conor, this is the 4th time in 8 UFC fights that the opponent has changed.", 
        "The McGregor vs TBA series has been pretty one sided so far, we'll see if TBA can finally stop the momentum!", 
        "i think he has some kind of voodoo totem of mma fighters he punctures", 
        "What were the other times? ", 
        "Andy Ogle was replaced by Max Holloway\n\nCole Miller was replaced by Diego Brandao\n\nJose Aldo was replaced by Chad Mendes\n\n", 
        "I have to give him credit for taking new opponents on short notice so often. That's not normal for top tier fighters is it?", 
        "They shook", 
        "Cole Miller would have been a tough opponent. He's so slick.", 
        "Fuuuck, didn't know that! None of those were by any means a better match up for Conor. Maybe Holloway and Brandao raised his stock more though.", 
        "Lucky for Ogle.", 
        "If he had fought Ogle, he likely wouldn't have torn his ACL and could be holding three titles by now.", 
        "If he had fought Ogle he would of given him such a beating that he would start to question if he should be dealing out this type of punishment, retire and open a key cutter and shoe repair shop in twomileborris", 
        "He said the time off made him realize and change several aspects of his approach to training etc..\n\nI believe that adversity only helped him in the long run.", 
        "Yeah, I don't think you improve much by winning. You aren't forced to evaluate. People learn from mistakes, not what goes smoothly and flies under the radar. Losing/getting injured sucks, but it can also be one of the greatest things to happen down the road. All about perspective, and that willingness to use your new situation to its fullest.", 
        "This is something every one of us needs to repeat to themselves.\n\nCliched as it is, we forget about it amidst the troubles and anxiety of everyday life.\n\nWe see failure as a stopping point, whereas if you learn from it and push harder it's the only way to get better.", 
        "Can you imagine what Conor would have done to Ogle", 
        "He would've punched him in the face?", 
        "he woulda amirkhani'd  him in the fucking face. ", 
        "Death via murder", 
        "Death via touch of death.", 
        "Would have murdered him to death.", 
        "Into the living death?", 
        "Winner in the first round by Technical obliteration at 1 minute  and 4 seconds.... Connnnoorrrrr MacGREGGGGGOR!!!!", 
        "This is punishment from the MMA gods for having Kimbo vs Dada 5000.", 
        "O MMA Gods,\n\nHelio Gracie, God of Grappling; Bruce Lee, God of Striking; Mask, God of Mainstream:\n\nI confess I had an awful and terrible wish. I wished that the fallen prophet would antagonize the king of your chosen kingdom. I wished Scott Coker would have a card featuring the Once And Future King Benson Henderson and God's Street Warrior \"Rampage\" Jackson would compete against their respective opponents for your favor. This is permissible, but my next dream was that your previous vessel, The Last Emperor Fedor Emelianenko would fight against Kimbo Slice. I beg your forgiveness. I will trade this fight for either Nate Diaz or Donald Cerrone to fight your new vessel, Conor McGregor. \n\nIn the names of St. Joe and St. Lenne and St. Bas,\n\nAmen. ", 
        "Is fair punishment", 
        "Same thing happened when we watched Kimbo v Shamrock. Kimbo winning is like the groundhog seeing its shadow. ", 
        "What else do you expect from the circus we call Bellator?", 
        "They gave us a healthy Cruz and demand sacrifice. ", 
        "lmaooooooooo i'm crying", 
        "But then he got plantar fasciitis - we had to sacrifice Cruz's ankle for his knees. ", 
        "I said the same thing when Cain got injured.", 
        "That sacrifice was  a 4 years sacrifice. Completely different. It was the dada 50 vs kimbo offer that they wer like, \"wtf. This is your sacrifice? Fuck u.\" That or Kevin.", 
        "> That or **Kevin**\n\n\nOuch . . .", 
        "That was not worth it. ", 
        "Fuck yeah it was, Kimbo vs Werdum for 200 will prove all haters wrong", 
        "Oh god, imagine if he somehow won that", 
        "And just in time for UFC 210 Kimbo will defend his title against Mcgregor who wants that final belt.\nImagine the shittalking", 
        "GET EM FERG ", 
        "Jesus Christ: Ferg! I thought they were saying \"Bert\" all these years and couldn't figure out why they'd call him that.", 
        "Dada was clutching his chest, gasping for air when the MMA Dark Lord Swoleseidon approached. he said \"Dada, you are dying. There are no more 40s or blunts for you, only pain now.\" Dada managed to wheeze out \"I'll give you anything, please.\" And so the prophecy was written, Bellator betrayed MMA's own begotten son Mcgregor and once again the MMA gods fell his foe, and the world's panties ran colorless. \n\n", 
        "I'm supposed to be writing a proposal, god dammit.", 
        "OK, you sir, get an upvote. ", 
        "Brilliant, evilf. r o f l", 
        "I'll have whatever you're using.", 
        "Did you just come up with swoleseidon and colorless panties running AT THE SAME TIME? if you're mother only knew", 
        "Fucking literature. Forget the upvote, I'm giving you a pulitzer.", 
        "[What Cowboy will see outside his window when he wakes up.](http://l.yimg.com/ao/i/hp/2012/news/july/oklifemess.jpg)", 
        "fight conow mcgwegow!", 
        "Is that Tom Hardy on the bottom right? ", 
        "I'm a huge Cowboy fan but I don't know about this fight for him", 
        "Wasn't it just yesterday or the day before he asked to fight again?  Is fate.", 
        "Looks like Germany right now.", 
        "The economy is bad over their?", 
        "I thinks it's a refrence to the refugee crisis. Pretty sure Germany 's economy is pretty solid, all things considering.", 
        "I was thinking [this](http://i.imgur.com/ozuQ3qN.jpg)", 
        "Was expecting a snowy Las Vegas driveway\n\nWas disappointed", 
        "I was expecting red panties raining outside he's window", 
        "Was expecting it to be raining red panties.", 
        "I was expecting a pot of gold and a rainbow. ", 
        "Have I been wrong yet ? Have I been wrong yet???!??", 
        "I expected another damn bathroom view", 
        "**Yes! We're all individuals!**", 
        "\"I'm not\"", 
        "Conor will probably be pulled from the card. Holm-Tate will headline.\n\n\nOr, the main-event should be just Conor with a microphone in the octagon and let him go off on RDA.", 
        "I'd rather watch that than any female fight", 
        "thats what they did when Luis santos pulled out of the Askren fight in ONE: Pride of Lions", 
        "Conor is still the headliner no matter what according to The big bad bald man. ", 
        "Can RDA survive 5 rounds of sliver tongue lashing by Conor?", 
        "\"Next tim I'm gonna cuddle him, whisper sweet tings in his ear, let em know daddys here and everythin will be alriight\" ", 
        "Conor will not pull out of ufc 196. That's why I love him, he never backs down from ANY fight no matter who it is. ", 
        "Conor will insist on an Interim belt and Dana will give it to him. He will beat a 2 week cowboy and declare himself a 2 weigh division world champion.", 
        ">Or, the main-event should be just Conor with a microphone in the octagon and let him go off on RDA.\n\nIf this is it I'm calling my cable company now. ", 
        ">Or, the main-event should be just Conor with a microphone in the octagon and let him go off on RDA.\n\nI would watch that PPV.", 
        "Conor RDA at UFC 200.\n\n", 
        "Conor never pulls out \ud83d\ude05", 
        "That would make for one awesome promo", 
        "Conor will fight becouse 1) Money, 2) He wants that title.", 
        ">Conor will probably be pulled from the card.\n\nStahp.", 
        "UFC is morphing into WWE more and more.", 
        "There is zero chance Conor will pull from the card unless they pay him to do it. And even then, he'll want to fight for his fans that travelled for him. ", 
        "Conor will not allow himself to be pulled ", 
        "Best comment on the page, by far", 
        "\"Dos Anjos, while you lay there, hopefully as uncomfortabe as you possibly can be, I want you to listen to me...\"", 
        "The McPipebomb", 
        "Got to feel sorry for Holm if that happens. She is the first fight into a champions contract that includes PPV points. It will cost her dearly with Conor off the card.\nI think that is one of the reasons she chose to fight again instead of waiting for Rousey. She is guaranteed to make millions off a Rousey rematch but she would have made bank on this Mcgregor card as well. Not so much if she is headlining. ", 
        "No.  She's just a straight up boss, loves to fight, and wants to prove she's the best.\n\nShe has a good manager looking out for her money-wise but really, it's not even something on her radar at this point.  She'd fight Meisha for $5 and a few burger king coupons.", 
        "With the amount of tickets, flights and hotels booked from people from Ireland travelling I don't think he could. Shitty situation to be in again. ", 
        "Yeah with all the people coming over from Ireland to see him McGregor now finds himself in yet another shitty position due to a champ pulling out just before an event. I'm not his biggest fan most of the time but the way he took on the Mendes fight on short notice was one of the ballsiest things I've ever seen in MMA. For all that a load of people are all over his dick for his trash-talking and stuff I don't think he gets enough credit for his willingness to take fights under awkward circumstances as well as his ironman consistency in terms of actually showing up.\n\nI'm really hoping that either Cerrone or Diaz get put in to replace RDA, it might even benefit Conor to get a warm-up fight at 155 against a stylistically kinder opponent before taking on the champ who seems to be such an awkward stylistic matchup for him. I know there isn't much of a precedent in modern MMA but in boxing usually when a big name fighter moves up in weight they'll have a fight or two to adjust to the weight-class before fighting truly elite competition.", 
        "Yeah my favourite thing about Conor is the respect he has for the travelling fans, he knows it's expensive and I think it'd weight to much on him if he was to pull out and let the fans down. I'd love to see either Diaz or Cowboy, I just hope Conor fights March 5th haha. ", 
        "Conor taking on Mendes was not ballsy. He was given a choice of fighting Edgar (who was in fighting shape) or Mendes coming off a hunting trip. Taking the easier of the two fights is not what I'd call ballsy.", 
        "Or he could have leveraged his massive popularity and the fact that the UFC had already invested millions into marketing Aldo-McGregor to fight neither guy and wait for Aldo. tbh, I really can't be arsed arguing about this. Whatever anyone says I respect McGregor for taking that fight.", 
        "Conor took the fight for the money and the interim title shot. He chose the lesser fighter who was in worse shape so that he would have a better chance to win. A win keeps him in line for his shot at Aldo, which was where the big dollars were. Deny it all you want, but Conor is a businessman. He's already said that he's in the UFC to make a lot of money and then retire early.", 
        "I don't know if they will see the point of having the FW Champion fight a non-title fight. \n\nHe could just go in there and wreck Diaz or Cerrone but what is there to gain? Another \"fake belt\"?", 
        "Yeah I doubt they'll do another interim title fight but if the rumours of a broken foot are true they might have to vacate it for some time while RDA recovers. ", 
        "a broken foot isn't something that you can recover from in a couple weeks, I don't see how they are going to just let the division sit for that long. Interim belt is only option i think.", 
        "A broken foot is a lot shorter recovery than a broken left thankfully, unless they waited to see if he could make UFC 200 they might let him retain the belt. ", 
        "Well, Anderson Silva did go up to 205 to fight Griffin and Bonnar while he had the 185 belt, so its not unheard of", 
        "He moved up to fight Sandman and Bonnar as well.\n", 
        "That's the side of him people don't see. He actually gives a fuck that Irish lads have made their way over. No way he'll sit it out even though most of us wouldn't blame him. ", 
        "Call up Robbie!", 
        "> With the amount of tickets, flights and hotels booked from people from Ireland travelling I don't think he could. \n\nThere aren't that many this time around. Dave Meltzer said on his radio show that scalpers are taking a real beating at the moment. Fight might have been too soon for the Irish to spend thousands of dollars when Conor fought only two months ago.", 
        "Its not the same group of Irish people always going to McGregors fights lol, this one was too close to Christmas when flights were being booked. At least vs Aldo it could be bought as a present, this one was announced after everyone was already skint.", 
        "Is there really a big irish following going again? Doesn't seem like it to me but I could be wrong. Every saving for the euros I'd say, and it's only 3 months after the last one", 
        "IIRC, Meltzer on a Wrestling Observer Radio said the numbers of people coming to watch from Ireland are indeed down for the exact reason.", 
        "I bought my hotel, flight from NY, ticket for the weekend. Now I'm stuck", 
        "Hope you still have a great time, I'm sure McGregor will deliver either way.", 
        "It's never really talked about until the week off the fight, I heard nothing about the % of tickets sold from Ireland of the Aldo fight until it was over. I wouldn't be surprised if another big group were heading but I really don't know. Fucking McGregor fights and the Euro's. The credit unions won't have any money left. ", 
        "He would never pull out. He's stated multiple times that he doesn't care who he fights -- he will be there on the date and he will fight, irrespective of the opposition. It will be Cerrone (at catchweight if Cerrone can't get to 155) or Diaz. ", 
        "Fighting Cerrone at a catchweight would be crazy.  He would probably be giving up 20 pounds or more at fight time against a guy who is hell  on wheels on the ground.  It's also a low-upside, big-downside fight for Conor. ", 
        "Why risk literally hundreds of millions of dollars and his rep for no reward. I can't see him fighting for nothing at this stage. Reschedule RDA for 197 - 198, though that would throw him out of sync for 200...", 
        "Why risk hundreds of millions?  Because it's not about the millions for Conor.  You may think you fuck, but this guy actually fucks.  He's a pure warrior and the millions are just a by product of being the most bad ass motherfucker in the UFC. I feel sorry for whoever gets the short straw and has to get KO'd in place of RDA.", 
        "Conor McGregor should not fight unless it is for a title. He is the biggest UFC star ever. There is no reason to risk a fight no matter how good he is. If he wins, no one will give him credit and if he loses they will just bash him. I would not fight if I was him. There has to be that one diehard Irish fan who keeps traveling and not seeing the fight they paid for.", 
        "Bro...hundreds of millions? You...you think he's getting hundreds of millions for this fight? That's a clown statement bro...", 
        "Not this fight specifically, over the course of his career at current trajectory. ", 
        "Ah. I got you. I disagree with that figure as well, but it at least makes more sense.", 
        "he did it against mendes, he'll do it again. i am a huge conor fan due to his stepping up in high risk/low reward situations like that and i expect he'll do it again here. if he refused to fight mendes at 189 on 2 weeks notice i wouldn't respect him nearly as much. ", 
        "He's not risking \"hundreds of millions of dollars\", in any scenario, and neither is the promotion. Don't say \"literally\" when you aren't being literal. Also: His rep takes a huge boost if he takes on all comers and wins.", 
        "Every fight \"risks\" those things. McGregor will get paid now, or he'll get paid for his next fight. And he'll either lose now or he'll lose later. Cowboy/Nate is actually an easier fight for him than RDA.", 
        "Really? Thanks captain obvious. No way the champ is a tougher fight than a guy who got dusted by the champ and a guy barely in the top 10 anymore. ", 
        "You're a little bitch bro. Fight me irl u dont even train hard", 
        "Reschedule a man with a broken foot that quickly? Yeah....", 
        "what?? he did the same shit w. chad mendes? why risk it? bc hes a fuckin badass", 
        "Fighting Mendes was a bad idea on paper. Strong wrestler who had fought for the title twice already; McGregor could have easily fucked that up and lost his shot agains Aldo. But being the savage he is, Conor said fuck that shit, took the fight, and laid him out anyway. I hope he does the same again and takes his frustrations out on some poor soul. ", 
        "This happened with Aldo and mcgregor didn't waste the card, he fought Mendez instead", 
        "I don't think Conor believes he can lose. So in his mind he's not risking anything.", 
        "easier payday in his mind. it's like when i show up to work on saturday and nobody else did so I shitpost on reddit all day making 1.5X pay. ", 
        "His rep is never pulling from fights tho. Half his shit talk is on others pulling out/not being well conditioned. ", 
        "They are going to want him for 200, I don't see them disrupting that for anything.", 
        "So let him beat Diaz and set up him vs RDA for 200. For some reason this makes me way more hyped than I was for RDA already; it feels like it won't happen, and it's making me want it so much more.", 
        "There no Reputation at stake. He was ready to fight the Champion. Why would he be afraid to fight anyone below the Champion?\n\nConor has said numerous times that fans are coming over for him and he will be there no matter what. ", 
        "Reputation at stake in terms of right now people look at him and say *\"holy shit, this guy is dusting everyone...\"*, but if he fights Diaz and loses it looks bad.  If he fights the champ and loses then he lost to the champ.  If he fights 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, whatever ranked dude and loses... then he lost to some fucking 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, whatever ranked guy.  One looks a lot worse than the other to most folks.  \n\nWould you rather ask a girl that's a 10 out and get rejected, or ask out a girl that's a 2 and get rejected?  \n\nIn that sense it's not only reputation at stake, but could also harm his confidence.  If you lose to the guy that's #1 then so be it, that guy is #1 for a reason.  If you lose to some other dude that's not even in title contention...well... what does that say about you?", 
        "This is McGregor not me. He will ask the 2 out all day because he beliieves he will win . This isnt about whether me or you would do it to risk our reputation. He doesn't care because he thinks he was will beat everyone\n\n>Would you rather ask a girl that's a 10 out and get rejected, or ask out a girl that's a 2 and get rejected?  \n\n>In that sense it's not only reputation at stake, but could also harm his confidence.  If you lose to the guy that's #1 then so be it, that guy is #1 for a reason.  If you lose to some other dude that's not even in title contention...well... what does that say about you?\n\n\n\n\nDisplayed by the fact that he will risk it just to not let fans down m he doesn't care about his reputation.\n\nHe sees himself winning and that's it .", 
        "The champ isn't always the best fighter or the biggest challenge.  ", 
        "There's a lot more for him to lose and a lot less to gain. In one fight you are facing the champion of a weight class where in another you aren't. A loss in the first is less hurtful to your rep then a loss in the second. ", 
        "Risk/Reward.\n\nLosing to the champion in a higher weight class is worth the risk, given that he'll be the only UFC fighter ever to hold two belts.\n\nLosing to a 155 contender ruins his chances of title fight and eliminates that chance", 
        "Currently even though he isnt undefeated, conor has the sense of invincibility in the UFC right now, obviously he'll always have hype but until his first UFC loss, hes gonna be a bigger pull, mostly because people are trying to see where this ridiculous run will actually end", 
        "TBH, I think he would beat Cerrone/Diaz relatively easily, but of course there's a risk in fighting anyone. I don't think Conor cares -- the guy is crazy and will fight anyone, and truly believes he'll win. Anyway, this is a disaster for Conor and messes with the timing of what he wanted to achieve. ", 
        "Yea it really hurts Conor more than RDA. How often are those Irish fans going to keep buying pverseas tickets when they realize just how serious the injury bug is in the UFC? I doubt many of them know enough to keep their tickets even if its a Cerrone or Diaz fight. It sucks haaaaaard but the show isnt exactly over yet. Remember 189 was one of the best cards of all time and it didnt rely on just name power. The card will be stacked either way and Conor cant afford to drop out of any fight at this point in his popularity. ", 
        "These fights are not easy. I do agree that he will most likely win them both, but if there is no pressure on mr CE RRO NE i am not counting him out. Diaz is not an easy fight for anyone as well.", 
        "Timing wise it's not too bad for him. Capturing the LW belt at 200 would probably be the biggest moment in UFC history, if he could do it that is.", 
        "Yeah, after taking on Mendes in a similar fashion, he knows, even setting aside his own abilities, that such an opponent would not be 100% ready for him in 2 weeks time. So between his own faith in his own abilities, and the fact that a 2 week camp won't prepare anyone fully for him, he doesn't have much to worry about.", 
        "I think he'll fight  Nate. Nate's an amazing fighter but he has a very very low chance at KOing connor. My tinfoil hat is sitting snugly but id say they pick Nate and if it goes to decision it'll be handed to conor regardless", 
        "Nate has a habit of making great strikers look very confused with his long and lanky boxing.", 
        "This might be a blessing in disguise, the amount of shit talking and memes that a Nate vs Conor fight would provide would be near endless.", 
        "KHABIB apparently offered to step in and was turned down? Uncle Dana knows what Khabib could potentially do to Connor.", 
        "nate could always dust off that bjj blackbelt for the fight. ", 
        "cmg was shit talking mendes while being mounted.... imagine if him and diaz are just arguing while he attempting a triangle ", 
        "Nate's got lung power for days, can Conor keep up that shit-talk pace? ", 
        "God, just imagine if he pulls off a triangle on Conor whilst flipping him the double bird like he did to what's his face.  ", 
        "Need a gif of this.", 
        "http://i188.photobucket.com/albums/z66/McFaake/diazpellegrino.gif", 
        "That would make my entire year. I think Conor would explode and die from rage right in the octagon.", 
        "[This dude called it!](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/41x1zo/whats_this_all_about_nate_waving_to_the_ufc_and/cz5vwlq)", 
        "I doubt the UFC paid RDA to get injured as RDA would probably make more fighting Conor and if conor were to lose the replacement fight there goes RDAs biggest pay day", 
        "not saying I believe this, but really if they paid RDA it would have been to fake being injured, and finding a replacement 2 weeks out pretty much guarantees that they won't be in shape to hang with someone like Conor, who had a full camp. even a great wrestler like mendes. which sets up the actual fight with Dos Anjos with more hype and more monies", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It's hilarious that people are actually believing it. ", 
        "Or maybe it's a way to have a little fun after given a shitty announcement? ", 
        "Some replies are fun, some are serious.", 
        "He predicts deez tings. But I'm getting my pitchfork out either way :(", 
        "Woah. Too many coincidences. ", 
        "I hope Diaz crushes him if this comes to be. Diaz upsets ufc, derails the McGregor hype train, ruins their cash cow, and laughs all the way to the bank ", 
        "Maybe I'm just naive, but are the UFC so brazen that they would pull this stunt again? Is it all in the name of increasing the gate or are there some other benefits too?", 
        "Theyre nervous of what happens when their superstar gets made look a damn fool. \n\nSee also: rousey", 
        "Then they should really stop giving him dangerous fights on short notice. ", 
        "It would also explain why they've hardly promoted the fight too.", 
        "and why no UFC 200 headliner...\n\nDUN DUN DUUUUUNNNNNNN", 
        "Conor is going to rip him a new one. He's going to talk SO MUCH SHIT.", 
        "I'd hope not if it turns out he did break his foot.", 
        "Aldo's ribs were broken and he just acted like they weren't.", 
        "Thats because they weren't.", 
        "RDA was doing so good in ignoring the Mcgreggor shit talking storm so far. Now RDA is gonna get all emotionally invested and vulnerable to shit talking and Mcgreggor is gonna get balls deep in his brain.", 
        "I'm so excited", 
        "Gimme Conor vs Cowboy Cerrone. They've been beefing and they both fight for one reason, money. \n\nIt would be epic.", 
        "For the people complaining about the lack of hype, the storyline writes itself.", 
        "And I can not wait!", 
        "Rightly so.\n\nAnother Brazilian champ running for the hills.", 
        "2nd one from Kings too.\n\nIt seems like people forgot about Werdum already; there's an odour of old-school barbarian training going on in that camp now, to me at least. They have the results (which is all that matter, arguably) but fuck, can they not be intelligent about it.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "When was Aldo able to fight Conor?  I must have missed that. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I know about UFC 194, but Aldo certainly didn't look able to fight Conor then. I have fought Conor about as much as Aldo has. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I was making a joke. You said that he fought Conor when he was able, and I was making light of the fact that he didn't seem very able during the 12 seconds of that fight. ", 
        "Why would he run from an easy fight? ", 
        "ireland on suicide watch", 
        "Conor fans are disgraceful to the sport,  showing it time and time again.  ", 
        "hopping for the hills.*", 
        "Hopping for the hills", 
        "Da fuq? His foot is broken. He's not running anywhere.", 
        "Well, i dont think hes \"running\" anywhere now.  ", 
        "After Aldo AND Werdum? God I cannot phantom the amount of shit that conor will throw at them", 
        "So, you think he's faking? What's your point here?", 
        "He isn't going to be running ***anywhere*** for a bit.", 
        "while this sucks and is his/his camps fault that he broke his foot and evidently didn't train smart, saying he's running for the hills is total bullshit he was more than game for this fight", 
        "Does he have a history of getting injured during camps?", 
        "He broke his foot. What do you want him to do?", 
        "Don't overtrain to the point of injury like way too many fighters do", 
        "Be more fucking careful", 
        "Fight anyway", 
        "Why is he training hard enough to break his foot so close to game day? That's what frustrated me most about the fight game. ", 
        "Apparently go crawling for the hills instead.", 
        "Not do the one thing he wasn't supposed to... get injured", 
        "I want UFC to skip this number and move on. It's cursed.", 
        "Have adamantium bones", 
        "Pull a Weidman", 
        "It's not as much that its wrong to break your foot.\n\nIt's just easy material for Conor to use to throw at RDA.", 
        "Walk. It's lower impact so you're less likely to get injured. ", 
        "Not train like a fucking barbarian.", 
        "Do we know it's a training injury for sure? For all we know he could have fallen down the steps.", 
        "that would be even worse", 
        "yeah, Conor avoids all stairs for a month before a fight. you know dis.", 
        "he certainly avoids falling down the stairs he takes", 
        "He scores pretty high on infallibility. ", 
        "Not sure where I saw it, but hurt it kicking the knee of his training partner. ", 
        "Aldo cant carry a cup of pee, RDA cant walk down steps... man, for being such gifted athletes these Brazilians sure are a clumsy and uncoordinated bunch!", 
        "Train intelligently. McGregor has that as a consistent theme. Say what you want about dancing with Ido Portal but that training doesn't break your ribs or your feet", 
        "Yea it just tears your ACL before 189.", 
        "By all accounts ( as in Internet rumours) that was from training with a Tristar member while travelling ", 
        "I wasn't actually referencing Ido, I was referencing that McGregor has injured himself training before.", 
        "He still showed up.", 
        "like Chael says:  You sign on tge dotted line and you make that walk.", 
        "That was Rory McDonald.", 
        "Both Verdum and RDA pulling out of title fights because of injury. Maybe King's MMA needs to join the 21st century and stop training  like Neanderthals. ", 
        "To be fair and reasonable: You could break your foot learning ballroom dancing, if you stepped the wrong way and your weight was off-balance. It happens. Accidents happen.", 
        "Exactly. Dude could have been stepping off of a moped and had a freak break. I broke my big toe whilst wrestling since I took a step backwards, and it ended up tucked under with my weight on it.\n\nI'd be more concerned if he'd done a rib this close to the fight.", 
        "I'm sure that's what happened; he stepped the wrong way.", 
        "Don't understand hypotheticals, eh?", 
        "Are there a lot of ways to accidentally break your foot? When focus is on training smart, I mean.", 
        "As many as you can imagine, really. You could slip in the shower after smart training. Perhaps have a kettlebell fall on it during smart training, or have a partner accidently trap it/bend it awkwardly smart training. Maybe you go ballroom dancing with your wife after smart training, and suffer an unfortunate accident.", 
        "Sort of like a Final Destination type of thing.\nYou're giving him the benefit of the doubt, while my bet is on him sparring too hard. If it turns out he did actually just have a freak accident, then I'll take my word back, but that usually isn't the case in these situations.", 
        "Yeah dude that's great and all but there's about a 99% chance he did it training by fucking up", 
        "Yeah.. to ballroom and ballerina ballerina dancers.. not MMA fighters... bwahahaha", 
        "I'm calling it ballroom dancing will be the new \"it\" training method.   Hell there's already guys that do ballet for balance.", 
        "JCVD was a gifted ballet student as a young boy, in Brussels.", 
        "You're less likely to break your foot learning ballroom dancing than you are kicking people with it, though.", 
        "Sure, anything can happen at any time. But statistically you are more likely to break your foot kicking something hard than ballroom dancing. ", 
        "Who says he was kicking something hard? My point was only to illustrate that accidents can happen, in training or out. Any assumption that a world champion pro athlete trains \"wrong\" or \"unintelligently\", without knowing the details, is simply foolish.", 
        "Fair *and* reasonable?  Get out of here", 
        "yeah who let Fox News in here!", 
        "It's not accurate at all. People do not break their feet ballroom dancing hardly ever. Saying it CAN happen is about as meaningful as saying you can do it grocery shopping.", 
        "Conor still trains regularly, it's not all movement training. And he's torn his knees and gotten many other injuries as a result.", 
        "He was apparently doing heavy, heavy sparring for this fight which is unusual.", 
        "He torn his knee in a fight tbf. He does train hard but he gives his body time to recover.", 
        "During the Holloway fight, McG did tear his knee. But he also tore it to some degree in the lead-up to UFC 189, and the rumor was he got it while wrestling with Rory.", 
        "Oh yeah he gets injured like any normal fighter BUT he does emphasise winding down toward the end of camp, something RDA could have done with ", 
        "It could have been a freak accident. We have no inside info on how this went down. Its a lot of speculation. ", 
        "the same thing every fighter does who doesnt break his foot 2 weeks before a fight", 
        "Fight with a cast and a cane. ", 
        "One kick by RDA and its over, whatever he hits will be shattered. ", 
        "Or a cast and a [cain](https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/701815381/caintweet.jpg).", 
        "Sea-level cane", 
        "limp for the hills?", 
        "Limp for you lives?", 
        "Riding through ferrari tire smoke clouds and barren wastes\n\nRevving hard on the vegas strip\n\nChasing the brazilians  back to their favelas\n\nBeating them at their own game\n\nViolence  for money the left on the jaw\n\ncoaches  and team mates are cowards attack!", 
        "Brilliant, happy cake day!", 
        "Not break his foot.", 
        "don't worry, he has one more to try to not break", 
        "Train smart. You've got millions of dollars on the line asshole. ", 
        "Everybody please hire Ido Portal\n", 
        "tekprodfx16 giving out training advice, Dada 5000 is literally more equipped than you", 
        "Me: You should train smart\n\nYou: your training advice is no good", 
        "You: TRAIN SMARTER, ASSHOLE\n\nMe: Not as easy as it sounds, asshole", 
        "That's not what you said the first time ", 
        "Just as 'you should train smart' was said a LOT more cuntily the first time yet you left that out in your reply", 
        "I thought I read he was done with the heavy training? Am I wrong?", 
        "Fuck RDA, every time i buy a ticket, Aldo, now RDA, I'm a UFC pirate from here on out, they owe me.", 
        "There's always a risk. ", 
        "Sometimes shit just happens. You can break your foot from a stress fracture just jogging.", 
        "Training smart doesn't preclude you from injuries, dude. We have no reason to believe he was over trained other than the notion that he's Brazilian. \n\nIn college my wrestling partner blew his knee out when I hit a whizzer during the first week of practice. Freak accidents happen pretty often.\n\nConor is arguably the \"smartest\" with his training but even he got a knee injury leading to 189. The only reason he was able to fight is because the UFC got the best doctors in Vegas to shoot stem cells in his knee.", 
        "Freak accident or stupid training. Doesn't matter. He fucked up. ", 
        "If it's a freak accident then there is literally nothing that could have been done to prevent it, unless he wasn't training at all.\n\nI get your pissed because you don't get to see this fight, but use your brain.", 
        "He had one job.", 
        "Wah wah wah go fucking cry about it, pussy.", 
        "I read somewhere Dos Anjos was not getting paid differently than his defence against Cerrone. Was that proven false? I really hope so.", 
        "Unlikely but who knows, either way, this is the biggest stage RDA would have ever fought on. ", 
        "Exactly. I don't understand why Brazilians are so bad at this. They seem to think going as hard as you can means you're more prepared, I guess.", 
        "He trains in the USA.", 
        "Yeah...but he's still Brazilian...", 
        "Depending on how he broke his foot there was probably no avoiding it. Anytime you throw a kick in sparring you take that risk ", 
        "And we're only two weeks away from the fight. You would think they'd start taking it easier the closer they are to the fight.  \nSo will Frankie fight Conor?  \nEdit: nevermind, weight wouldn't make sense.", 
        "I agree. This is a huge failure for him and his camp but to say he's running for the hills implies he's a coward. He\ns not a coward, he just fucked up in training", 
        "He's a coward. When an NHL player is tougher than you as a fighter there is something wrong.", 
        "Why should he go into a fight against a dangerous opponent and risk future prospects (health/belt/future earnings) going in with a handicap? ", 
        "To not be a coward lol", 
        "It would be dumb of him to think he could beat McGregor on one foot. To go fight him with the injury, would be stupidity. Cowardice would have been ducking him during matchmaking.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Go back to Facebook.", 
        "They get tested out of competition now even when they don't have fights coming up so....", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "An Injury doesn't prevent them from being tested. ", 
        "Has this happened to Brazillians other than Dos Anjos and Aldo? Haven't been following UFC for too long so I'm not sure", 
        "Pretty much all of them including Anderson Silva ", 
        " If there was one brazillian MMA fighter than might not be on the sauce, it's RDA.", 
        "RDA is one of the most obvious users in the UFC.  Just because the stuff he's on isn't popping any tests doesn't mean he's clean.", 
        "Why obvious?  He takes fitness the most seriously. The marinovich training is legit. Is there something about that i don't know? Are his trainers known to be dirty or something? ", 
        "Why would one of the most randomly tested athletes in the promotion be afraid of fight night testing?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Which \"reasons\"? Oh, you meant \"speculations\"!", 
        "He's been tested so much he would've been caught by now if he was juicing.", 
        "Going to go ahead and infer that you have no idea what you're talking about. Got it.", 
        "He has been randomly tested four times this year.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Do you know how PEDS work? He's been tested 4 times in 2 months in 2016 alone. You can't cycle drugs like that. One it would be fucking useless and 2 it's the biggest fight of his career so I doubt he would fuck it up with drugs. ", 
        "Or he broke his foot on purpose so he wouldn't have to face Connor ", 
        "All of these training fuckups are complete negligence. ", 
        "Eh, it's hard to say without knowing how he broke his foot. Could have been a freak thing.", 
        "Freak things seem to happen alot to Brazilians.", 
        "It was a checked kick. ", 
        "It's very well could have been a freak accident. The problem I have and I'm sure many others share this with me is how typical this has become for a lot of Brazilian fighters and it certainly seems fishy. I'm not going to say that Anjos himself is on PED's but it seems to be the status quo now that Brazilian fighters always get \"injured\" weeks before a big fight and it's looking less and less like a coincidence every time it happens. ", 
        "Reebok pump malfunction", 
        "> to say he's running for the hills implies he's a coward\n\nHe's certainly not running for the hills now...", 
        "Man, I'm disappointed. I really wanted to see this fight. All the Ido Portal detractors can say what they want about McGregor's training methods but he doesn't get injured like this. It might just be bad luck, but the amount of Brazilians who get injured like this a few weeks out from their fight is too high for it to just be a coincidence any more.", 
        "He got injured leading up to 189 and the ONLY reason he could fight is because the UFC got him stem cell injections.\n\nGiant Conor fan, but be honest with yourself.", 
        "What do you mean the UFC got him the injections? Could he not afford them?", 
        "Do you think he could have found a doctor, and gotten approved for stem cell injections in such a short time frame without the UFC doing al the work for him?", 
        "\"Fourteen weeks before the fight I tore 80 percent of my ACL,\" said McGregor during a fan Q&A in his hometown of Dublin, Ireland. \"I could barely walk, I could barely kick.\"    before mendes fight.    ", 
        "So he sustained an injury that not only didn't stop him from fighting, but he also won despite? Not really comparable to something that puts a fighter out of an event and happens a couple of weeks out from said event.", 
        "Upgrading your software without damaging the hardware.", 
        "PEDs and backwards training routines. I can't see why you would be training hard enough to break a foot or bruise a rib 2 weeks from your fight. ", 
        "It's easier to do these things than people imagine.", 
        "I know they are, but when certain gyms seem to have injuries before fights happening more often than others it makes you wonder what is going on", 
        "Dos Anjos trains with Nick Curzon in Cali...", 
        "Thank you. From the comments here, you'd think Dos Anjos trains in some back alley in Rio, holy shit.\n\nLet's ignore the fact that Dos Anjos has been pushing his body at an extremely high level for the last several months so he could have two title fights in very close succession. \n\nPeople demand that these guys fight more often, but clearly don't understand the toll it takes on a fighters body. Conor himself has faced injury. The more active you are, the more likely it is that you will get injured.", 
        "Brazilian machismo can't help when implementing the routines either. ", 
        "The best part is, this so-called Brazilian machismo very quickly turns into Brazilian excuse making. It's almost like they injure themselves on purpose so they can have an excuse in the event they lose.", 
        "It's hard to break your foot kicking out candles.", 
        "Unless you kick the kitchen counter ", 
        "Lolol", 
        "You saved me a post, have an upvote.", 
        "Don't think he's running anywhere with a broken foot...", 
        "What is life ", 
        "42", 
        "A fucked up thing where we don't get to see the fights we want. ", 
        "> [What is life](https://youtu.be/Pg9SYIkwzNg)\n\n", 
        "Baby don't hurt me", 
        "no hurt knee, no more ;)", 
        "No more ", 
        "Untz untz, untz untz untz!", 
        "Uuhhh oooh ahhh ooohh ahhhh ooohh ", 
        "Ariel on Twitter:\n\nSpoke to Cerrone\u2019s mgmt team this morning. They are interested in taking the fight. He\u2019s on the shortlist, for sure.", 
        "Seriously what the actual fuck if he does this. ", 
        "Crazy bastard. If anyone can lose the weight in this short of time, it's him", 
        "Meltzer said Conor is over 180 right now, too. Probably about the same cut for both dudes.", 
        "That's true, but Cerrone just did the cut for 155, meaning the fat that Conor will lose is probably gone on Cerrone. He'll have a lot of water weight and 10 really hard pounds.", 
        "Sounds like Cerrone is at 174 and fought at 170 on Sunday. Seems like he fought pretty close to walk around weight. If it were anyone other than Cerrone I would think it isn't going to happen, but the dude puts in the work.", 
        "Oh absolutely. If anyone can cut the weight it'd be Cerrone, but it won't be easy. Honestly, his work ethic is the main reason I like him.", 
        "100%. I wish he didn't talk about beer all the time (don't get me wrong, I'll take a cool Yuengling on a warm day any time), but the way he talks about it makes me think he is a try hard. lol\n\nBut I'd love a show about him during a fight camp. He's one of the few that seems to have a good motivation, and a great ability to say what he is doing/thinking and why.", 
        "A try hard?  How do you think he managed to retain his Budweiser sponsorship despite the embargo?", 
        "Cowboy is on every shortlist ever", 
        "Good, that way when he loses he can say \"well, I wasn't 100%, I took the fight on short notice, and yada yada yada..\"", 
        "No, not on the testicle size reduction list. ", 
        "NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO", 
        "I think enough time has passed that you can add\n\nEdit: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO", 
        "If this did happen in the last few days the question is how? I thought he had his last day of hard sparring last week according to his Instagram. ", 
        "I read it happened on Friday. It literally must have been the last \"hard\" training session. Such bullshit. ", 
        "lol, \"I just had my last hard sparring session.\"\n\n*next week* \"Oh yeah, forgot to mention. Broke my foot\".", 
        "Apparently they wanted to see how it would feel over the weekend and heal up. Such fucking bullshit, I'm pissed man. I've been hyping up this fight to all my friends.", 
        "I was literally just about to message my friend to get him hyped to see it when I saw the announcement. :(", 
        "Mcgregor pulled a Tonya Harding?", 
        "As is tradition. ", 
        "I wonder if this injury will rock RDA's confidence at all. I remember the odds changing after Aldo got injured, and there was almost a feeling in the air like all of Conor's hype and attacks weighed Aldo down and the injury broke him.", 
        "Absolute fucking bollocks, how does this ALWAYS seem to happen?", 
        "it doesn't. you just notice it more when it does, than when it doesn't.", 
        "4 times in 8 fights for Conor.", 
        "Brazilians ", 
        "They probably fucking throw a leg kick too hard and hit their foot on someone's knee. When will they learn? Conor probably thinks they Rev up their training to fight him and then they get injured on purpose at this point. ", 
        "[SOON.](https://scontent-lhr3-1.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xft1/v/t1.0-9/12729272_1080273835369178_769130495899197840_n.jpg?oh=6acc0a2780b9e83a8ee2e4a6ec0459de&oe=575ECE10)", 
        "Dude. I want to see this fight so bad. ", 
        "I rather this over Diaz.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "The UFC rankings are complete shit, Beneil Dariush beat Michael Johnson in his last fight and is on a 5 fight win streak while Johnson has 2 losses in a row but Dariush is 2 spots lower than him.\n\nThe P4P rankings are even worse because it's all hypothetical.", 
        "An Angry UFC Fan Just Updated RDA's Wiki page Regarding His Foot Injury & Subsequent Pulling Out Of UFC 196. Hilarious!!\n\n\"Dos Anjos was expected to face Conor McGregor on March 5, 2016 at UFC 196 for his second title defense of the lightweight belt.[39] However, it was announced on February 23 that Dos Anjos had been forced out of the fight after breaking his foot running away from McGregor.\"\n\nSource: Wikipedia ", 
        "The way you wrote the first part made it seem like it was the title of a click-bait article...", 
        "In all seriousness how do you \"run away\" with a broken foot?", 
        "In all seriousness though, would a priest and a rabbi really walk into a bar together?", 
        "Are you Joey Tribbiani?\n\nThink about what was written for a second before replying.", 
        "True, I did fuck that up there didn't I.", 
        "I just want a fight where Conor can prove himself and leave no questions unanswered.  If they find a replacement and he wins, it'll be the full camp Mendes controversy all over again.\n\nWith Aldo it was a one punch fight, no one got to see Aldo inflict damage.  I love Conor but if this is true, these three biggest fights of his career have been weird in one way or another.  \n\n*I personally think McGregor's win over Aldo was pure, I was referring to the people that don't.  Seems I confused some people.", 
        "So knocking Aldo out with one punch even though he hadn't lost in 10 years isn't proving one self anymore?  Sorry man I forgot you heroically type words on a computer.  Maybe someone should get Conor a keyboard so he can really prove himself too!", 
        "The next Anderson Silva...", 
        "Luck 'o' the Irish.", 
        "This is where having so many fights hurts the sport. In the old days if the champ was fighting there was also a contender fighting on the same card. So if some one in the main gets hurt you have a guy that has been training and in shape ready to go. Even if you aren't training for a specific guy at least you are in shape. ", 
        "Exactly my thought, Conor did his job in the Aldo fight but he had also done a number on him mentally for months prior. I would love to see a rematch where Jose takes his time and dishes out some leg kicks", 
        "Kinda like when Weidman beat Anderson. The first fight was a flash knockout, second Anderson broke his leg. But he proved he was something against Machida.", 
        "I was cheering hard for Aldo in the months leading up to that fight. Was it disappointing as a fight? Absolutely. Was it a fluke? Absolutely not. Conor cleaned his clock with a solid punch in that fight, can't argue with that or say he doesn't deserve to be the 145 champ. ", 
        "Catch weight with Edgar (would prove a lot). No belt on the line though so I don't think Edgar would take the fight. So either Diaz or Petis both in good shape.", 
        "Edgar is unavailable ", 
        "Is he booked?", 
        "Injured", 
        "His win against aldo was 100% legit.\n\nHe can fight against Cerrone (he says he can fight again in Las Vegas). Otherwise, he can go against Diego Sanchez or Jim Miller (from the same card).\n\nIn any case, it will never be an interim fight, because RDA fought like 2 months ago. So I am not sure what Conor will want, because he won't get the belt, he won't be able to go against Lawler in UFC 200, and we don't know how much he would need to cut to fight Frankie in UFC200 (or whatever). I always thought that if Conor won the LW belt, he would leave the FW one.\n\nIf this is true, it's the worse scenario for Conor.", 
        "Nah, just give him Diaz now, and RDA for 200. It's still 5 or so months away.", 
        "Cowboy wont happen, no chance in hell he gets off suspension before 2 weeks, I bet not even conor got off medical suspension in 2 weeks after the aldo fight", 
        "From a business standpoint it absolutely would have to be for an interim title if he still fights. There is no way the UFC would risk conor's stock on a non title fight at this point. And if he wins and RDA is still injured it could still be Lawler at UFC 200.", 
        "I do agree that from a business standpoint it will be an interim fight, but RDA just won his belt 2 months ago. You cannot create an interim belt in the LW division at the moment.", 
        "They did exactly the same with Aldo v McGregor. It was Mcgregor who said he will not fight unless its for an interim belt when Aldo pulled out. He holds way more leverage than any other fighter in the UFC. ", 
        "Aldo? I guess people can consider it a fluke or something but it was an undeniable win. Even for someone like me, who thinks if that fight happens in 100 parallel universes, ours is the only one he gets knocked out in under a minute, you can't make any excuses for Aldo. ", 
        "The only issue I have is Aldo didn't seem the same as he was before. Aldo a couple years back vs. Conor now would be a fight to watch. It Aldo gets back to that level it may be a fight to see again but the Aldo we saw in that fight lost to a better fighter.", 
        "It was a pure win, but I personally prefer to see decisive victories or close and competitive fights. I want to know how McGregor would deal with all the elements of Aldo's game, how Aldo would approach the fight, how accurate all the analysis was, that kind of thing. Especially after all that buildup.", 
        "I think its kinda like Anderson vs The Chris. Chris knocked him out \"Oh, Anderson was just messing around. If he was serious he wouldnt have lost.\" Then it was \"Oh its just cause he broke his leg. Thats a fluke. If he didnt break his leg he wouldnt have lost.\" \n\nNo man, The Chris beat him. I was rooting for Aldo, and I would again in a rematch, but he got KTFO.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah it was.\n\nWatch the first fight. Anderson starts throwing out those unsupported low kicks when he's trying to bait Weidman into coming forward on him after he gets freaked out by being outgrappled. \n\nSecond fight comes around, same thing happens in the first with Weidman outgrappling, and rocking Silva in the clinch. Silva starts throwing out the same sloppy, unprepared legkicks, and Weidman's team made the obvious technique adjustment.\n\nThe leg break had a low percentage of happening, but Longo had clearly noticed that Silva relied on them when he was feeling pressured. Weidman was losing for literally 0 seconds of his 2 Silva fights.", 
        "People like to forget about Chris giving him the Ray Rice special before the break. ", 
        "Exactly, and Longo clearly created a gameplan that dealt with Silva's fallback plan in the first fight. Anderson failed to diversify his approach, and went down from the leg-break. \n\nSilva clearly panicked in the second round of both fights, since he realized that he needed to bait Weidman into a mistake to get him out of there. Maybe he got old and couldn't sustain a longer fight, but the fucking around seemed intentional in both fights.", 
        "Sorry mate, I went back an added in a bit about Aldo before I saw your reply.  I'm of the opinion that Aldo was a pure win for McGregor as well.  But the nature of the fight means that a few of the Aldo fans disagree with that.  I just want him to leave no questions unanswered so he can shut up people who moan. ", 
        "> But the nature of the fight means that a few of the Aldo fans disagree with that\n\nThe nature of the fight is that he got KO'd in 13 fucking seconds from a skillful movement and a solid left hand.  How is that disputable?", 
        "surprisingly I have seen very very few people call the Aldo win a fluke. Everyone I spoke to that was/is an Aldo fan begrudgingly gives Mcgregor his just due. \n", 
        "I don't really care either way. I just don't think you can tell anything from the fight. Remember the time JDS knocked out Cain? The next two were very different when the fights lasted longer. Not saying that's the case here, but it could be. ", 
        "It's not so much a fluke as it was Aldo making one mistake, which ended up being all Conor needed. Bias aside, I think people can agree we don't know how the fight would've went had he missed that one chance. Also, folks were bringing up Cain vs JDS - who knows... Maybe if they fight again it'll go that route.", 
        "It wasn't just a mistake though. Aldo has led with his chin while throwing a feint in many fights, McGregor was just the first to capitalize on it.\n\nMcGregor was seen on camera practicing the counter to that very move backstage before the fight.\n\nWhen there's a pattern that can be seen across many fights, it's not a mistake, it's a weakness.", 
        ">it was Aldo making one mistake\n\nIt really wasn't one isolated mistake though.  Aldo has been using that lunging over-committing combination for a long time.  You can look back in his old fights and see it.\n\nPlain and simple, it was a weak part of Aldo's striking and Aldo didn't improve that aspect of his game before facing one of the best counter strikers in FW.\n\nYou can say Aldo's mistake was to launch that right off the bat, but you can't say it's not something Aldo would have done eventually, or even in the first minute anyway.", 
        "I guess I haven't paid attention to that, so if that's how he strikes, good on Conor. Makes a huge difference then if it wasn't simply overreaching. Hopefully Aldo can improve and make a comeback in general.", 
        "Yes, Conor saw this and even before the fight, he explicitly said to the media (on multiple occasions) that Aldo would over-commit on his right hand and Conor would \"bang the left\" hand.", 
        "Calling it a fluke is just ignorant.\n\nBut from my perspective, Aldo fought a terrible fight. Conor is amazing, he has fantastic timing and movement and his left straight counter is just so fucking wonderful. So why in the name of god would Aldo charge in like that and open himself up to Conors greatest weapon? He should've had a gameplan to avoid just that, and does the exact opposite. \n\nI feel the same way about Liddell throwing that lazy body shot on Rampage and Gustafsson throwing a lazy front kick to the face of Rumble. Bad techniques that negate their own biggest strengths and opens up their opponents biggest weapons.\n\nSo the fight still leaves a lot of questions.\n\nMcGregor was by far the better fighter that night, he went in with a gameplan and executed it to beautiful perfection.", 
        "It's hard to argue someone fought a smart fight when they lost in 13 seconds.  Literally almost any strategy will get you to like 20 seconds, so almost anything else would have been better. ", 
        "Haha, I guess, a lot of us can say that we would last longer against Conor than Aldo did. Just runaway as fast as we possibly can, flop to the ground and just do anything to avoid engagement...\n\nAlthough, I can't say that, I can't run...", 
        "Agreed, that punch was the culmination of a lot of work. It kills me that Aldo failed on the biggest stage of his life but well...shit happens.", 
        "If that's the case, we need to start celebrating the fact that he shows up when these other fighters don't. I think activity should be hugely rewarded and celebrated. Getting to the fight is more than half the battle. For example, I don't think Khabib is an elite mixed martial artist because he has failed to show he is capable of competing at an elite level for any significant extended period of time. Clearly on his day, he can out grapple just about anyone and definitely has the capability of becoming champion. But just like an athlete in a team sport who has one great season or gets hot for a few games each season, he's not consistently performing. Conor, even if he isn't fighting the optimal opponent, is. So fuck full camp mendes and other excuses. If the other fighter didn't fail the test, Conor wouldn't have had to deal with that shit. Enough with the thoroughbreds who can race once or twice a year and are fragile like fine china. ", 
        "It's because he's always upgrading his software without damaging his hardware. ", 
        ">If that's the case, we need to start celebrating the fact that he shows up when these other fighters don't.\n\nThat's my takeaway. I love Aldo and RDA, but there's something to be said for someone who you know will get to the cage when they're scheduled to fight. \n\nI love watching Ferraris like Khabib and Aldo, but it's not so fun when they're parked in the garage. Conor hasn't let his fans down yet. ", 
        "It's like a tesla. Yeah it's nice and fast and luxurious, but it has such a small distance range that you can't take it beyond your own city. The journey to the title is a road trip. The path of defending a title is a long slog. Not the road trip for a Tesla. Personally, I think if you can't defend a title once a quarter/4 times a year, you aren't the champ. You are just someone who for a very brief period of time was good enough to be there. But not stay there. ", 
        "Regarding a title fight four times a year-- who has done this so far?", 
        "Nobody so far, but that's due to intentionally fighting less. The UFC and its fighters are at a crossroads. 2014 hurt them bad. 2015 was dope. 2016 is on pace to out do 2014 in injury fuck ups. You can't build a business on fight cards that may happen. You always know the super bowl or World Series is going to happen when they say it will. You can't build a successful HW division if the champion fights 3 dudes in 6 years or something like that. With the fox deal coming up and the elephant in the room of chord cutting, this type of thing cannot happen on a regular basis going forward, or else fans will begin to fatigue. \n\nIf jones Cormier is delayed due to injury, then 2016 is a lost year for the UFC cuz all the 2015 momentum will be gone by UFC 200. And can anyone really get hyped for 200 right now? You can't get hyped until the week of the fight and that is going to keep the sport from ever making it to day in day sport center talking heads level. \n\nSo, has any champion fought 4 times a year? No. Can they? I think yes. If magny can fight 6 times a year and then keep that pace the next year, how come others fight 2 times a year tops? Are they training too hard? Maybe they should train less so they can fight more. There is a race for the sharpest edge, but that often comes at the detriment of the fighters' long term health/success. You can't win if they other guy put it all on the line for this one fight. Same for weight cutting. I'm sure plenty would like to avoid it, but can't cuz they know the opponent will cut. So both fighters put their bodies through unhealthy stress that is only necessary when both fighters have implicitly agreed to do so. So the UFC needs to start making rules to force the fighters to fight more while simultaneously ramping up medical clearances and making it harder to be sanctioned for a fight. Sanction independently from commissions. If the fighters then continue with current strength and conditioning regimes, they will be injured too much and will be punished by the new system that rewards activity. The fighters that take the nick and Nate Diaz approach to fitness get rewarded and we start to see fighters more often per year, thus improving their visibility, thus making them more household names. As it stands, seeing a dude show up from who knows where once, twice a year means fans don't really get to engage. \n\nAll in all I think the UFC needs more of a season, without the league. Make winning 3 or 4 fights in quick succession against top 15 ranked fighters as celebrated and rewarded as beating the top ranked fighter and then having to take 6 months off due to injuries. ", 
        "Yea fair play to Conor he's never dropped out of a UFC fight. Always puts on a show for the fans.", 
        "And if he fights on March 5, it'll be his second time fighting on almost no notice. For someone with as much to lose as him, I gotta respect that.", 
        "This is exactly why I was such a Chael fan too. He talked big, and he always stepped up and took any fight in front of him. Conor's the same way. ", 
        "mate lets be very careful comparing Conor to chael lol", 
        "I'm not saying they're the same type of fighter, or that they're even comparable in any way other than the specific things I mentioned (nor am I saying the *aren't* comparable in other ways). What I'm simply saying is that neither of them hid from a fight, and neither of them make excuses, even though they've had multiple opponents duck from them either by avoiding signing fights or by getting injured in preparation for a fight. It's for this reason that they both were able to request title fights and get them in short order. If you want to impress and gain respect from the matchmakers, show up on fight night and do your job! (And there are numerous other fighters that also do that, these two simply stand out due to their PR skills.)", 
        "Well, Conor is getting his fights though. Chael took fights on short notice, as far as I know Conor hasn't done that yet.", 
        "That's true, though he seems the type that would step up if the call came in.", 
        "I'm not saying he wouldn't, but I kinda doubt it. He clearly doesn't have a problem accepting a different fighter on short notice, but that's when he's already been training for months. I would be surprised if he just popped into a card and said yeah ill replace fighter x and fight fighter y on 2 weeks notice.", 
        "http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-vLOAoksNY1Q/URFUvHAoV6I/AAAAAAAAJXE/ebJVVqBVqKE/s1600/not-like-this.gif\n\nFuck it, let him fight Cowboy if Nate isn't up for it", 
        "Gimme Nate Diaz and I'll watch the shit out of it. ", 
        "Im here in dublin. Its all over the news. Holy fucking shitballs\n\nEDIT: John Kavanagh also pretty much confirmed it on his twitter\n\n:(\n", 
        "Frankie is the real loser here ", 
        "That fight gets knocked back further and further, especially if Dos Anjo's and Conor's fight gets rescheduled for ufc200 ", 
        "Conor will have a field day with this, I guess they move the title fight to 200. ", 
        "See i dont think they can, he said he wouldnt hold the FW division up. He more than likely has too defend in his next fight", 
        "Probably. I bet he still fights at 196 too, though. I doubt they cancel. I'm sure it will be Cerrone or Diaz.", 
        "you think cerrone is going to fight in a couple days after just fighting 2-3 days ago? theres just no way but I would enjoy that", 
        "If Cerrone and Diaz are both good to go they should fight each other again! ", 
        "Cowboy fighting twice in 2 weeks ?\n\nFor half a mil I would but that's a career making fight, you want time to prepare for these.", 
        "If he doesn't take it he risks never getting the chance to go up against him again. ", 
        "True, that's a serious decision to make but he's offered the opportunity he should definitely accept.", 
        "This is why I dont get excited till fighters are in the cage and Bruce is doing his thing.", 
        "Weren't people asking just yesterday where the hype was for this event?\n\nThere's the answer. The hype is gone, just like RDA's foot.", 
        "Well, let's hope RDA's foot isnt really gone, that would be career ending.", 
        "I think the hype just tripled. Give Conor a can to crush now, and people will start talking about how Conor looked shit against a can, and how RDA will smash him at UFC200. Simoultaneously, Conor will lay down some serious trash talk and get us all exited.\n\nI think the RDA matchup came too fast and felt too easy. Now the fans are left wanting, and the build-up will be so much sweeter.", 
        "I'm guessing they learned a lesson when they flew Aldo and Conor across the world's doing a giant expensive press tour are only to have Aldo get injured.", 
        "I said it to myself from the start that id be surprised if RDA made it. He did back to back camps and they are intense as shit looking. ", 
        "\"I know a guy\"", 
        "Fuckin ronie!", 
        "What the fuck are you doing that you manage to shatter your foot 11 days out of the biggest fight of your career. These brazlians need to get rid of yhe rawr chute box tuff guy mindset.", 
        "They should stop ducking him...", 
        "They should stop ducking him...", 
        "Or stop doing steroids and having to pretend to be hurt when they can't pass a test. ", 
        "Did you see how he was training? Like a fucking beast, which looks very cool, but it is very stupid, because things like this can happen.\n\nI think it is Conor who said in TUF to train and spar carefully, because you want to be 100% on fight night.", 
        "Is that why Conor had a busted knee at 189? ", 
        "Busted knee is a lot different than a broken foot", 
        "In fairness, I've had friends blow out their knees just standing up from the couch. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Nah. Shit happens man. Joints get worn down over time. You never know what wrong step or turn might do to your body. ", 
        "It wasn't that busted up though, he also got some kind of stem cell injection and it started to feel much better he said. Not to mention showed up to fight anyway. ", 
        "The point is that despite the \"advice\" he likes to give he had a busted knee going into the (then) biggest fight of his life. Injuries happen. \n\nAs for showing up anyway, RDA beat Pettis with a torn MCL. Title challengers show up with injuries all the time. It's the champs that pull out. ", 
        "as far as I know it was because he was training with Rory, who is 2 classes above him. Maybe his mentality changed after that.", 
        "To be fair, the crazy bastard Conor is considering going up to the right class Rory is in, but yeah, there's about a twenty pound difference between them. Rory is a big boy. ", 
        "Even though Robbie beat Rory twice, I think Robbie is a better match up for Conor. Robbie is 2 inches taller, but they have the same reach. Robbie loves to trade and go bersker, and I think that is the worse thing you can do against McGregor. His TD and ground game are not that good.\n\nRory is way bigger than Conor (3 inches taller, 2 inches advantatge). His TD are good. His ground game is good. He usually fights in a calm, mauling way. He will use his reach, and he has good kicks.\n\nSame way I don't think Conor will ever beat Wonderboy. Not because Conor is a worse fighter, but because I think the size is too much for his style.", 
        "Turns out \"chute box\" is Portuguese for \"stupid hard.\" ", 
        "you went from asking what he could have possibly done, to inferring it was hard sparring ", 
        "'what he could have possibly done?'\n\n'What the fuck are you doing that?'\n\nTwo completely different questions.", 
        "well it certainly wasnt ido portal influenced..", 
        "Inb4 he dropped a weight on his foot.", 
        "i've been training martial arts and in the gym for over 10 years, I've never dropped a weigh on my foot. 2 weeks out from a holiday and I stop doing shit that could make me miss it, what's he playing at", 
        "Foot bones can go pretty easily. Could literally be something as innocuous as standing up off a vehicle too quickly, or just happening to get his foot caught whilst sparring. He doesn't have to be doing crazy Chute Boxe shit to do a foot injury.", 
        "He also went from English to saying \"get rid of yhe rawr chute box tuff guy\"...", 
        "Its more of a rhetorical question. Like if they posted a video of him of bare knuckle brawling with Werdum my reaction would be \"What the fuck is he doing?\"", 
        "fair enough ", 
        "He went 6 to midnight. Leave him be. ", 
        "He shattered it on Aldo's ribs in training so Aldo could avoid the offer to move up for a LW rematch as a replacement. ", 
        "Yeah maybe Aldo paid off the trainer to wrap his foot wrong so that...", 
        "Is Aldo actually ruled out as an option? It would make a lot of sense to put him in there.", 
        "No it doesn't, Conor can't make FW weight in 11 days.", 
        "as a LW fight, obviously.", 
        "But it wouldn't be for the belt in that case. There's no chance they'd do that.", 
        "He works with Nick Curson, a strength and conditioning guy that was on Joe Rogan's podcast. When Joe asked him what the number one most important thing he has fighters focus on, Nick said \"foot strength.\" HMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM", 
        "Well, sounds like he's not very good at strengthening feet.", 
        "LOOOOOOOOL!!!", 
        "Wasn't that in the context of yoga? Just listened to the Robin Black podcast and they mentioned that. I need to listen to that podcast.", 
        "Damn, I would have forgotten all about that.", 
        "It's possible but that seems unlikely. Not much strength and conditioning routines can break your foot, even if you are focusing on lower legs. \n\nIt's much more likely that he was sparring too hard and fucked it up. ", 
        "Good fucking call, dude.  That quote always stuck with me and makes me feel like a total puss everytime I look at my beautiful, well manicured feet.", 
        ">pedicured\n\nftfy", 
        "Thanks brah", 
        "I remember that guy. Great catch.", 
        "yea, he sure is dreamy. \n\nr/MMATigerBeat", 
        "Shit like this makes me want to stop watching MMA. Get hype for months and then days away the fight gets cancelled. Rinse and repeat about 7 or 8 times per year. So damn frustrating ", 
        "Conor's Coach just tweeted a sad face, thinking its confirmed now:\nhttps://twitter.com/John_Kavanagh/status/702117058855751680", 
        "[**@John\\_Kavanagh**](https://twitter.com/John_Kavanagh/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 13:05 UTC](https://twitter.com/John_Kavanagh/status/702117058855751680)\r\n\r\n> :(\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "https://twitter.com/subzeromma/status/702107691955724289\n\nHas always been pretty reliable! ", 
        "[**@SubZeroMMA**](https://twitter.com/SubZeroMMA/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 12:28 UTC](https://twitter.com/SubZeroMMA/status/702107691955724289)\r\n\r\n> Breaking: Rafael dos Anjos is injured and out of UFC 196.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZmUoZMSxia0", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e0_D4Zh9k_A", 
        "Fuck. I wish they weren't ", 
        "Also, x-rays have been released to Dana's doctors who say there is no break and rda has to fight. Rda's doctors dispute this. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I am pretty sure he is making light of the first Aldo fight being scrapped ;)", 
        "Source?", 
        "I don't think he is being serious, probably just referencing the story with Aldo's injured rib ", 
        "Pretty sure he is joking about how McGregor vs Aldo was postponed due to Aldo fracturing a rib and Dana saying \"He didn't fracture it, it is still bruised, he can still fight but doesn't want to\" after Dana's doctors said it wasn't a fracture. ", 
        "The MMA gods giveth and the MMA gods taketh away.", 
        "I'm so mad. This guy just cost us a chance at Connor Robbie at 200. This is not how you tank a man for all his wook.", 
        "I'm curious do people actually thing he could beat Robbie? Has Conor ever fought a guy who you could take a fucking baseball bat to his head and he still keeps coming at you?", 
        "A baseball bat has nothing on the left hand shot.\n\nConor would bat .400 by just punching the ball.", 
        "The McNuthuggers here believe Conor could beat Robbie, GSP, and Bill Brasky at the same time, while holding his left ankle in his right hand. ", 
        "No reason that fight couldn't still happen.  I would love to watch it even if Conor does't have RDA's belt.  He gets a pass on needing RDA's belt, due to RDA pulling out.", 
        "If someone held the 170 belt and the 145 belt at the same time, without holding the 155 belt, it would be comedy gold.", 
        "What about Frankie? Homie still needs to drop weight and defend he's belt", 
        "Dude is injured, and champions are informed of their fights more than two weeks out when a cut is involved.", 
        "Yeah I know that, but I'm saying, before he rolls up to welterweight, he needs to drop down to featherweight to defend he's belt, after he fights for the lightweight belt. ", 
        "This is so wack. RDA you fucked this up big time. ", 
        "Honest question: has RDA ever pulled out of a fight before? ", 
        "This better be bullshit", 
        "So again we have to deal with this crazy way for preparing for fights - hard sparring that leads to a broken foot less than 2 weeks out from a fight. \n\nThis **will** hurt his bargaining power in the future and this is the exact reason fighters will **never** earn a salary from the UFC. Union or no union, fighters need to learn to spar smart and not pull out of fights - there is too much money on the line and the only way fighters will learn this is by hitting them where it hurts... their pockets. ", 
        "Just curious, how do you know this was from hard sparring?", 
        "I don't, I'm assuming. If it's not from hard sparring and it's totally unrelated, then RDA and his team have my deepest sympathies and I hope they can recoup some of their losses. ", 
        "Imagine if it's a Santiago Canizares style perfume bottle injury. That would be amazing. ", 
        "This couldn't have been said better! Very true.", 
        "I'm surprised it's not already formalized in their contracts?..", 
        "Edit: I've updated the flair. Damn it.", 
        "pretty much confirmed now by everyone including McGregors Coach, Ariel H... :(", 
        "Uncross those fingers cause helwani confirmed it now.\n\nhttps://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702116889955328000", 
        "[**@arielhelwani**](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 13:04 UTC](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702116889955328000)\r\n\r\n> Rafael dos Anjos injured, out of UFC 196 main event fight against Conor McGregor -- http://www.mmafighting.com/2016/2/23/11098398/rafael-dos-anjos-injured-out-of-ufc-196-main-event-fight-against?utm_campaign=arielhelwani&utm_content=chorus&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter \n\n>[[Attached pic]](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cb5rl1NW0AAIJ4P.jpg) [[Imgur rehost]](http://i.imgur.com/ffV5XIe.jpg)\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "Put in Diaz or Ceronne!", 
        "This is the sixth time in McGregor's last 12 fights that his opponent has pulled out", 
        "Maybe in Conor wasn't such a cunt his opponents wouldn't train so angrily.", 
        "Not again. Conor will more than likely want to fight because the Irish fans will be fucked if he doesn't :(", 
        "He's not pulling a Dustin Porier/ Jon Jones - that's for sure. I don't understand how you can hate a guy that will fight anyone.", 
        "This is pathetic I know but I actually feel depressed about this. I know there are worse things happening in the world, other things that should take precedence but to look forward to something for so long and have it taken from you the last minute just really sucks balls.", 
        "anyone else just wasting the fucking day waiting to hear who conor gets to fight? ", 
        "May day has just started and it's pretty much how I expect my day will be. Constantly hitting refresh. ", 
        "If I was Donald Cerrone, I'd stay as far away from this as possible. That guy needs to rebuild his reputation. The last thing he needs is a guy who exploits all of his weaknesses.", 
        "Cerrone's reputation is that of a fearless badass who will fight anyone anytime and probably win. Oh, and fans and the UFC love him for it. Pretty sure that's a better reputation than 98% of the UFC roster. ", 
        "Literally he just needs to cautiously set up a takedown and submit him. But he won't. He'll get his face concaved because he wants to beat Conor at his own game or some shit.", 
        "Reputation? His reputation is taking fights regardless of the circumstances and always putting on a great one. \n\nHe just looked really good at 170 and the fight was commercially successful.  If he gets housed by Conor it will be a loss on less than two weeks notice to literally the hottest fighter in the world and he still will have saved this PPV. \n\nComing in and losing after a good showing will only add to his reputation as an exciting fighter with fans and a company man with his employers. Coming in and getting housed he will have a ready-made excuse.  Coming in and winning would set up one of the most interesting conversations about the future of several men and would have the potential to set up a half dozen matches in the future,  not to mention make him a living fucking legend. \n\nI can't even express how wrong you are. ", 
        "\"When the champ won't fight, the send in me.\"\n\n&nbsp;\n\nGo make a t-shirt.", 
        "Cerrone's reputation is that he will fight any where any time. If he takes the fight against Conor on short notice and loses, I doubt he'll lose fans. ", 
        "Yeah but....that pay check. IMAGINE how much money you can ask for! IMAGINE.\n\n\"Oh you want me to fight Conor Mcgregor on 12 days notice? Yeah....i'm gonna' need 6 figures son!\"", 
        "But red panty night?", 
        "Donald would be an idiot to not take this fight. Headlining against the most popular fighter arguably of all time? Yeah, no chance. He's gonna want that payout. ", 
        "Serious question here...Do you think Conor is the most popular fighter of all-time?  I mean within the fight world, he's hugely popular right now, for a very good reason.   I always think of someone who is the most popular as someone identifiable outside of their realm.  I'd like to think Liddell, Rampage, or even Couture is more popular/recognizable than him outside of the fight world.  I don't really see Conor in the mainstream news much.\n\nKind of like how every wrestling fan loved CM Punk or Daniel Bryan at one point, but we all know in reality Cena is far and away more popular than either one of them.   \n\nEdit:  Rousey.  Forgot her.  She's more popular than Conor I would guess.", 
        "When has Cerrone backed down from anything though? I'm not sure he gets off medical suspension early enough, and the weight will be hard, but if they give him the chance, he'll take it.", 
        "I really don't think cowboy needs to rebuild anything. He's never been billed as a world-beater, just a tough MFer that takes any fight in front of him. He fights twice as much as most guys; he's gonna lose a fight from time to time. The 8-fight streak he was on was a mean one and taking this fight only reinforces his reputation. ", 
        "Why?  Its not like he never lost,  he would earn shit tone of money. There are not many who belive cerrone can beat lw or ww champ or any of the top 5 in ww,  so why not take a fight and earn 5-10 times more money?  Even if he looses in 10 seconds he still can continue fighting as before.", 
        "What exactly needs rebuilding about Cerrone's reputation? He has soundly beat everyone not named Dos Anjos in his last 12 fights...he is 10-2, losing to Dos Anjos and taking on all comers otherwise.", 
        "It's the manner in which he lost that has damaged his image.", 
        "Perhaps to the most fickle, poorly informed \"fans\" that would be true.", 
        "And those are the people who are buying PPVs.", 
        "...and they are buying them regardless, since they don't closely follow most fighters careers.", 
        "I would disagree with your assertion that he 'soundly' beat Bendo. Plus factor in that he hasn't faced Khabib, Pettis, MJ or ugly Tony in any of those 12 contests, in my opinion he loses 2 or 3 of those 4 match-ups if he were to go back down to 155 (and if Khabib ever makes it to a contest).", 
        "No comment on Bendo, preference reigns supreme in that debate. Khabib who? The guy everyone seems to love, and insists is elite, but who never fights? Why would I care if he hasn't fought someone who never fights? He did face Pettis, though it was a loss...that gorgeous liver kick, remember? Michael Johnson is a few hairs above mediocre in his division, at best, and not a standout at anything except being \"a great athlete\". I would love to see Cerrone fight El Cucuy, though.", 
        "Sure, I get your point with Khabib, fair enough!\n\nthat's kind of what I was getting at with Pettis, I think he'd smoke Cowboy in the rematch too. Plus Nate beat Cowboy (albeit 4/5 years ago) pretty convincingly, and I'd put money on him doing it again if ever there was a rematch.\n\nI'd rather see McGegor vs Nate than vs Cowboy, think it'll be a more competitive contest. Nate's shown how hard he is to put away, will be a good gauge of Conor's power if he can stop Nate.", 
        "If I am being honest I want to see him against Nate more too! I want Nate to stand and trade for a bit, frustrate McGregor, then mix in a sneaky trip and maul Connor on the ground. Long story short: There is no outcome to this fight other than injury that won't be entertaining haha", 
        "In my opinion he lost that Benson Henderson fight, but I agree with you in regards to his reputation he is a stud.", 
        "On top of that, he has all the respect from everyone win or lose for being a TRUE fighter and trying to fight on every card. Even if he lost 12 in a row people would still be down because he doesn't give a fuck and would fight every day!", 
        "I've a feeling it'll be cerrone. Would suit the ufc too as there's a good chance conor will kick the horse shit outta him. Keep their cash cow alive at lightweight ", 
        "I can $ee a few rea$on$ he might want it", 
        "Time to call Shane McMahon to save th... Oh wait wrong sub.\n\nAll seriousness, I'm conflicted about a Diaz-McGregor fight. I want Diaz to get that big payday but I also want more build up for it, with crazy trash talk.", 
        "Here comes the money!", 
        "What did I do to deserve this", 
        "man, I feel for all the Irish with flights etc.", 
        "Same here. As long as Conor still fights it's not the end of the world for a lot of them though. ", 
        "Kimbo vs Dada 5000. This is our punishment for allowing that fight to happen.", 
        "KHABIB TO THE RESCUE!!!!", 
        "Put me in coach!", 
        "http://www.mmafighting.com/2016/2/23/11098398/rafael-dos-anjos-injured-out-of-ufc-196-main-event-fight-against?utm_campaign=mmafighting&utm_content=chorus&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter Seems pretty legit, fuck sakes.", 
        "You shut up. You shut up now.", 
        "I'll bet he broke his foot doing that stupid fuckin training of his, I got downvoted to hell when I mentioned how stupid it was to have a weighted vest, carry weights and do foot movement drills in all directions", 
        "i need a vid\nEdit - JoeKhurr was talking about Machida doing it \nhttps://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/44zmif/machida_doing_some_saq_drills/czu3qd0\n\nI guess if you land the wrong way, goodbye ankle", 
        "Is that what he was doing? I thought it was common knowledge that you only wear a weighted vest for a little bit during one simple workout like stairs or pull-ups. I'm so disappointed in these coaches...", 
        "Glad I wasn't the only one who thought \"WTF?\" as soon as I watched his 'training' videos.  ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Sense of humor: lost", 
        "How fit is Khabib at the moment...?", 
        "Dana shouldn't risk his golden goose on khabib. ", 
        "too good to be true", 
        "No...nooooooooooooooo!", 
        "Big question, why would Conor fight for anything else besides the belt?", 
        "next highest ranked fighter is alvarez, but he stated a few days ago that RDA is a better fight for him than mcgregor so he might opt out. Cowboy is a possibly but he just fought, stuff like compound brain injuries can kill, cant just fight then walk back in 2 weeks later. Get punched twice hard twice in a month and that stuff is lethal. Kinda leaves diaz open. win win for him.. hed be making bank and if hebeat mcgregor... conor would never live that down", 
        "> Get punched twice hard twice in a month and that stuff is lethal.\n\nWhat are you on about man? If that was true people would die every single fight. Having a very short fight and taking a couple of punches then fighting a few weeks after is WAY better for your brain than taking 25 minutes of punishment in one go.", 
        "[Second impact syndrome is a very rare condition in which a second concussion occurs before a first concussion has properly healed, causing rapid and severe brain swelling and often catastrophic results.](http://www.brainandspinalcord.org/traumatic-brain-injury-types/second-impact-syndrome/index.html)\n\na 1988 study demonstrated that even after 3 months, people who had sustained a mild concussion still hadnt regained function comparative to the control group (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3380274) ", 
        "For one:\n\n>Second impact syndrome is a very rare condition\n\nFor two:\n\nWhen was the last time Cerrone was concussed? I'd say it's extremely unlikely he was after his last fight. And RDA finished him more with body strikes, I'd be surprised if that caused a concussion. The last time he took serious head shots was the Alvarez fight but since he fought just a couple months after I doubt he was concussed. ", 
        "For the fans, for us. Love him or hate him doesn't matter, he will show and put on a show. He shouldn't go, he has nothing to gain and everything to lose, but he will.", 
        "Another highly anticipated top heavy card shot to shit. Miller vs Sanchez co-main anyone? This is the UFC these days...", 
        "So tempted to photoshop Dos Anjos head in place of Jimmy's from south park.", 
        "Do it!", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/uM3IDH0.png", 
        "now I have no reason to put off that suicide I was planning ", 
        "Not funny.", 
        "[Nah. Dark humor is pretty funny.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaR7Uxau9OY)", 
        "Aldo at 155!!", 
        "He's roonin' scared! He knows who the real champ is.", 
        "I read this with Conor's voice. :D", 
        "This is getting ridiculous. I get this is fighting, but at a certain point the UFC is going to have to start setting guidelines or restricting certain training close to the main event. \n\nIf you can't stay healthy, you shouldn't be fighting in the UFC. I know i'll get alot of hate, but its your job to show and stay healthy. ", 
        "I agree man I might just stop watching even. Imagine the year that just passed, \"well the blue jays are injured so they can't go to the playoffs anymore!\" Fuck that shit. They should be forced to fight. ", 
        "I do believe that certain injuries should see a fighter stripped of the title. If you have a title defense coming up and you are unable to defend your title because of an injury less than 2 weeks from the fight, then I sincerely believe you should have the title stripped from you. And I don't mean doing it via interim titles or any of that stuff, I think they should strip the actual title, find a new opponent, and put it on the line.\n\nI felt the same when Aldo pulled out of his fight. I feel the same every time this happens. Now if you get an injury a month or two out, that's one thing. But this close, man that's saying something right there to me. It's saying, at the very least, that you aren't able to successfully defend your title.\n\nAgain, injuries happen, but this close to the fight IMO it's all on the fighter. Either they need a training protocol that doesn't result in something like this or they need to cease their training at least a couple weeks out.", 
        "C'mon!  This better be bullshit!", 
        "WAKE ME UP", 
        "i can't wake up", 
        "Dana should break Conors foot and let them fight ", 
        "Conor shadowboxing will be the main event", 
        "Called it 40 days ago... https://reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/40oer3/its_official_rda_vs_mcgregor_holm_vs_tate_at_ufc/cyw6dud", 
        "Conor is now the first multi-divisional champ of the UFC. He earned the lightweight belt by walk-over.", 
        "hah, he's gonna say that 100%", 
        "Wtf???\n\nEdit: RDA's family/friends have pretty much confirmed it on insta :(", 
        "Link?", 
        "All proceeds of UFC 196 should go to research to find out if Brazilian bones are actually made of pussy ", 
        "Wow that PPV is fucking terrible now ", 
        "Fucking brazilians", 
        "I KNOW ", 
        "https://t.co/ClllshElrt", 
        "Ah yes. I totally agree. \n\n*cough* what does this say? *uncough*", 
        "If this is true, Cerrone at 170 or Diaz at 155 would be awesome to see.", 
        "Edit: Nevermind, read the weightclasses wrongly.", 
        "=)", 
        "Cerrone? Mcgregor was already going to fight at 155...", 
        "Brutal. Just brutal.", 
        "RDA just gave Conor so much ammo!", 
        "Fuck it. Let him fight lawler", 
        "Lawler would be awesome but not a chance it hell that actually happens lol", 
        "Does anyone really think Diaz has a chance?", 
        "Not really but it would be fun as hell to watch, they'd need to have the ring fully mic'd up to record all the in-fight trash talk. Whoever they pick as the opponent I think Conor will have a much better chance than against RDA, and I don't mean because of the short-notice. Other than maybe Frankie Edgar I think RDA's style would be the most difficult for Conor to deal with out of all the possible opponents he's got right now.", 
        "No but it'd probably be a good fight anyway.", 
        "agreed", 
        "Worst. fucking. news. ever. ", 
        "Didn't Cordeiro just tweet last week that RDA's training was done? I wonder what happened.", 
        "His training was done because his foot was broken.", 
        "Probably they wanted to wait a few days to see how his for reacted.\nAriel's article says that RDA injured his foot \"late last week\".", 
        "It happened late last week. So he probably wasn't lying", 
        "The thing about making the fight for the interim title is to give guys a reason to take the fight on such short notice. Its not just for Conor's benefit.", 
        "I just had my weekend ruined 1 week in advance. What is this misery", 
        "You guys who are saying RDA is scared aren't thinking clearly. He was two weeks away from Red Panty Night! RED PANTY NIGHT!! TWO WEEKS!! One does not simply abandon Red Panty Night.", 
        "Well,  even if you're a Conor McGregor hater,  ya gotta admit,  at least he shows up to fights. ", 
        "I knew this was too good to be true. RDA did this shit on purpose just like Aldo.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/fg5FxH9.gifv", 
        "sheesh - breaking your own foot just to skip out on a fight.  smooth move dos anjos - ", 
        "[Rule out Aldo] (https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702184370799513600)", 
        "And here I was thinking that the worst thing to happen to MMA this month was the Dada-Slice fight.", 
        "https://twitter.com/NateDiaz209/status/702189028666257408?s=09", 
        "Hahaha golden, this is going to get interesting", 
        "[**@NateDiaz209**](https://twitter.com/NateDiaz209/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 17:51 UTC](https://twitter.com/NateDiaz209/status/702189028666257408)\r\n\r\n> He's going to have to get on his knees and beg...\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "hahaha came here to post this.  shots have been fired.", 
        "That's awesome; please make this happen!", 
        "McGregor vs Dada 5000 please.", 
        "Way to go RDA! Continue crushing dreams!", 
        "RDA FANS? \n\nhttp://i.imgur.com/KRc2irc.gif", 
        "Fuck this gay world.", 
        "The fact that you are in any way NOT in massive negative points saddens me. ", 
        "?", 
        "No fo gay wold", 
        "#Conspiracy: Dey Knew the whole time, UFC 200 RDA vs McG, they just had to sell out 196.", 
        "Its no where close to being sold out", 
        "No no no.\n\nNo no no no no.\n\nNo no.\n\nNo no no no no no no no no.\n\nNo.", 
        "As much as I want to see another big fight in a couple weeks, I don't see how McGregor shouldn't be pulled.\n\nThe only way Mac is fighting is if it's for an interim belt, but an interim belt shouldn't be on the table at this point, IMO. People will want to compare this situation to Aldo's injury, which created an interim title fight, but this is not the same situation. Let's recap how the last interim title fight was created:\n\n* Prior to Aldo's scheduled title defense against McGregor at UFC 189, Aldo hadn't fought for 9 months. His previous title defense was Aldo vs. Mendes at UFC 179. It was 8 months before that (UFC 169).\n* Aldo had pulled out of 4 title fights leading up to UFC 189.\n* Conflicting reports about Aldo's rib injury provided no real timetable for his return even before McGregor vs Mendes was scheduled.\n* The #1 contender, Mendes, had rested for 2 months and was willing to do a 3-week mini camp.\n\nBased on those conditions, [Dana said the UFC made a difficult decision](http://www.mmamania.com/2015/6/30/8874621/disappointed-dana-white-explains-reason-conor-mcgregor-vs-chad-mendes-interim-title-ufc-189) to make McGregor vs Mendes an interim title fight. Now consider what we have now:\n\n* RDA has never pulled out of a title defense.\n* RDA's last fight was two months ago.\n* While we don't have a timetable yet for RDA's return, his coach has already said he won't need surgery and will be able to put weight on it in 3 weeks.\n* The #1 LW contender, Eddie Alvarez, beat Pettis a month ago and is reportedly eager for the fight; however, most fans don't seem very intrigued with a McGregor vs Alvarez fight at the moment.\n* Even if Cowboy, Pettis, Alvarez, or Diaz wants the fight, it wouldn't seem fair with only 11 days notice (not counting the media obligations that would go with all of it).\n\nFrankie Edgar's gotta be pissed about this whole debacle, too, knowing that an interim title fight and subsequent unification fight at LW leaves him without a date for the next foreseeable future at FW.\n\nIt doesn't make sense to me to make this an interim title fight, but I do see how the UFC has a lot of money to lose if they pull McGregor. It's a shitty situation all around and I don't have a ton of faith that Dana is going to do the right thing, for once.", 
        "what's wrong with these Brazillian \"champion\"? every fucking time.\n ", 
        "Cowboy will do it. ", 
        "This is shit but the begging tweets to Dana over the next few days will be funny. ", 
        "Give Conor 197, fuck putting something together last minute, I'd much rather see two full camp fighters fight.", 
        "How the fuck do these people manage to break their bones less than two week out?", 
        "What do you mean [*\"these people\"*](http://crasstalk.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/448x249px-LL-3dd0d362_what-do-you-mean-you-people-tropic-thunder-movie-1309633407.jpg)!?", 
        "Angry Brazilians", 
        "The MMA gods did not find our offering satisfying. This, they taketh away. ", 
        "But we gave them Dada. What more do they want?!", 
        "I think they wanted Kimbo instead. ", 
        "Grabbed the screenshot from Ana Hissa, pretty sure she broke the Aldo news before:\n\nhttp://thephantomknee.com/2016/02/23/is-rafael-dos-anjos-out-of-ufc-196/", 
        "Shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit", 
        "Noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.\n\nDon't do this to us MMA gods", 
        "I want to die. ", 
        "Wasn't his camp finished? =(", 
        "It should have been.", 
        "http://awesomegifs.com/wp-content/uploads/no.gif", 
        "Put in Cowboy!", 
        "ffs, not this again", 
        "[NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO GOD. PLEASE NO!!!!!!!!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H07zYvkNYL8)", 
        "Well, then...Time to call Frankie Edgar. ", 
        "Connor can't make that weight this close. It's not gonna happen. They should pull Connor even though it sucks for the Irish fans and go for UFC 200", 
        "No No NO no please no. If they bring him up it will be the damn 2 week fight camp again bullshit.", 
        "I just went from erect to limp so quickly my dick got whiplash. I was so excited for this fight.", 
        "Put in cowboy? HA, I'd rather see Diaz fight em'", 
        "I was so damn excited for this. This is what I hate about UFC, injuries before camp. ", 
        "That foot strength conditioning sure made the difference in this fight!", 
        "My heart hurts. As much as I want to see Connor fight, I hope they don't hastily put together a replacement at short notice without a full camp. Unless it's Khabib. ", 
        "the RIB now the FOOT Brazil pleaseeeeeee!", 
        "These pre fight injuries just compound Kavanaghs approach: Upgrade the software and *don't damage the hardware*", 
        "BREAKING NEWS FROM UFC 200 Robbie Lawler blows his asshole out and has to pull out of fight with Mcgregor ... Wonderboy steps in to fight on 1 days notice ", 
        "Ya'll smell something??", 
        "https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=HjI54J0ga5A", 
        "Pretty slick...", 
        "I hope Conor trash talks him into oblivion for pulling out. You're two weeks away from the fight, why the fuck are you training so hard that you broke a foot?", 
        "FUCK", 
        "This can't be real life ", 
        "Diaz for sure, he already exposed cerrone's lack of head movement which connor would use as target practice, plus diaz boxing has improved plus the shit talking factor.  I'd buy this one.  ", 
        "Just put me out of my misery plz", 
        "Dos Anjos just signed his death wish.", 
        "Is Lawler available?  Let's just go for the next belt! ", 
        "Why do people think cerrone would make it more competitive than diaz? ", 
        "FUCK SHIT CUNT ASS DICK. \n\nNow that my frustration is out of the way may I just say FUCK SHIT CUNT ASS DICK!!! ", 
        "Somehow I'm not surprised.", 
        "If Dos Anjos can provide a picture or proof that he broke it that would go a long way towards easing the backlash for pulling out.", 
        "Appeasing idiots? Is that the priority now? Personally - I love watching morons descend into conspiracy theories and old-lady sewing circle type frenzies. It's like being at a human zoo.\n\nMaybe this is a good thing - and the UFC will realize having only one marketable fighter...which is their fault...isn't the best business plan.\n\n\n", 
        "Appeasing the people who shell out money to watch/go to events. People who invest in your product don't want to waste money. He has an image to uphold and he probably will get a lot of flack for pulling out of this fight. Whether right or wrong it can affect your marketability.  ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "So am I a moron for wanting to know if this was a legit injury that is keeping him from fighting or did he pull out because he is at 95% and is afraid to lose? People play sports injured all the time. I am not expecting a guy to fight if he is legit hurt but don't be charmin soft.\n\nAlso no tissues required, I don't care that much nor would I have paid for it in the first place. I am glad you're watching out for the morons though", 
        "\"Look how he trains hes a beastOHHHH!!! HE'S HURT!! HE'S HURT!!\" Come on man...", 
        "ARRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG", 
        "[So, RDA is hurt?](http://i.imgur.com/QgwM83P.jpg)", 
        "God damn it.", 
        "https://imgflip.com/gif/zonle", 
        "McGregor Diaz way better than the cerrone fight.\n", 
        "Breaks my heart about the rumors he'd challenge Lawler at UFC 200 for welterweight strap if he won. Probably the only person in the planet happy about RDA pulling out is Woodley.", 
        "2nd  Brasilian in a row to pull out before the fight.", 
        "Almost as bad as pulling out after the fight...sons of bitches!!!", 
        "Pettis, Cerrone and Diaz are on the short list for the fight. this is a win-win situation in my opinion.", 
        "Up steps cowboy!", 
        "Get Frankie on the phone. 155 interim belt.  ", 
        "Holy fuck can these Brazilians show up to fight when they're supposed to for once?!", 
        "god damnit! is there a manual for how to train hard but not hurt yourself before a big fight? cause this is getting annoying", 
        "Pettis or Cerrone. No one else. Let's not pretend Diaz wouldn't get destroyed. ", 
        "If Conor wants to get hurt, I know a guy. ", 
        "Oh fuck im gonna fight McGregor and its so close now. *Kicks palm tree* ", 
        "This is the most devastating day of my life.", 
        "First it's a rib, now it's a foot, the next Brazilian Champion better have a broken fucking neck before they pull out of a Conor McGregor fight. ", 
        "> broken fucking neck\n\nIs there a Brazilian Kurt Angle out there we don't know about?", 
        "Cain Va... Oh wait, he's Mexican, never mind lol", 
        "wasn't RDA posting a video yesterday about how it was his 'last day of training'?\n\nwhat the fuck.", 
        "Last day of training, lets go kick some concrete! Smh for dos anjos", 
        "UFC should introduce a 2 week quarantine for all championship fights.  Nothing but a room and maybe a stair master.", 
        "I have it on good authority that Frankie Edgar was seen in Brazil outside of RDAs training facility with a sledgehammer.", 
        "That's some Tonya Harding gangsta-shit right there.", 
        "Motherfuck...come on. Arrrrgh. Although Diaz would be a good replacement. The shit talking would be level 9000.", 
        "[Stockton Mother Fucker!](https://streamable.com/0176)", 
        "If it's not Lawler (which it very likely isn't), I'm going to have a hole in my heart", 
        "I have a tinfoil hat theory that Conor gets in these guys' heads so much they get super aggro during training and then injure themselves. Makes the most sense in comparison to roiding theories.", 
        "Im so pissed. I had tickets for this, I booked flights all to specifically see THIS fight.", 
        "Blame RDA, must be be his cycle was off, \nthe bone growth around his brows is not normal", 
        "Kings mma training paying off big time, Werdum then RDA, strip these fucks and let them fight DADA 5000 in bellator emergency room.", 
        "As much as I hate to say it, Conor should probably be pulled from the card and moved to headline 198 in order to give time to line up an opponent. (197 is already stacked to shit, unless they pushed one of those fights out to 198).\n\nIt's a risk though, creeping closer and closer to UFC 200, the bigger the risk Conor could be hurt or not make it. He is the headliner to put 200 through the roof, and since it's all about money, don't be surprised if McGregor is put on ice until 200, despite how much he would protest it.", 
        "I'm hoping the next time Dana tells Conor his fight is planned in Vegas that Conor tells him to shove Vegas up his ass and that White OWES it to the Irish fans to have it in Dublin to make up for the lost money on airline tickets, hotels, and such.\n\n", 
        "Fuck this gay earth", 
        "209 let's get it Diaz!  ", 
        "If they make an interim belt again than the UFC will just become an even bigger joke when it comes to sport integrity ", 
        "196 is cursed. If Lawler steps in it will be chaos.", 
        "Faker. All these Brazilian champs fake injuries and hope their opponent loses. Conor won't lose though.", 
        "He might not have faked it. He could have dropped a weight on his foot to keep his belt a little longer before Conor takes it from him. Hopefully he doesn't need a year to get the balls to actually fight Conor (aka lose his title) like poor little Aldo did.", 
        "[Ohhhhhhh fuuuuuuuuck now I feel like a total dick...](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/46k77n/rafael_dos_anjos_training_camp_is_just_about/d05ttfi)", 
        "Mystic mreliotrosewater?", 
        "Does this mean McGregor can take the interim belt like he did with Aldo? If he fights Alvarez", 
        "Who ever steps up and fights Macgregor has more balls than RDA.  I had hope that he would give him a challenge but nope,  he says his foot his injured and will not require surgery but he can't bear weight on it for 3 weeks.  I say bullshit! ", 
        "I feel like I'm the only person that doesn't want to see a replacement for rda. If conor isn't doing the incredible, he shouldn't be putting the legacy he's rapidly building for himself at risk. I think he should wait for rda and take a full camp against frankie or max hollaway in the mean time. Fighting a low level contender (who probably weighs 170+ right now) on short notice at 155 doesn't do enough to build on the greatness and is far too dangerous imo", 
        "Easy, Cowboy and Conor for the Interim belt. \n\nThey need to implement a policy where if you are expected to defend your belt but pull out of the fight that they will crown an interim champ until you return. The show must go on.", 
        "Fuck, imagine if you'd booked flights and a hotel for UFC 189 and then found out Aldo had backed out. Then, you booked for UFC 196...", 
        "What a joke, the man is scared. Didn't want McGregor to change his bum life", 
        "How do these stupid fucks keep getting injured 1-2 weeks out constantly? Either they're as stupid as we think, or there's some fuckery going on somewhere. ", 
        "It's everything combined with fear.  They have some minor injury due to stupid training or what not and then become insecure that said injury might cause a title defense loss.  They become victims of their own mind.  ", 
        "Cerrone you're up.", 
        "Please no", 
        "Fucking bullshit, the fight was on my birthday and the PPV is all I wanted.", 
        "Reaction Conor:) https://streamable.com/pwih", 
        "Fucking just saw robin blacks ecstatic breakdown before seeing this news. \n\n\nNow I'm deep into a 1000 yard stare...excuse me", 
        "he should be stripped of his belt ", 
        "Interim title fight Cowboy vs McGregor", 
        "Cowboy couldnt offer an interim title. You skipped Alvarez Khabib Pettis and Ferguson", 
        "Aldo and Dos Anjos are very weak mentally...", 
        "Another Brazilian running scared.", 
        "Brazils gone runnin", 
        "This is preposterous! Dos Anjos hasn't fought since December this needs to be an Interim title! Scratch that. Cut Dos Anjos and make McGregor the Lightweight champion. ", 
        "HE'S RUNNIN' SCARED!!", 
        "Conor vs cerrone for interim belt\n\nedit: I'm joking", 
        "If it is for the interim he needs an opponent who deserves to be the interim champ and a shot at rda after the fight. Cerrone just got destroyed by rda. I love me some cerrone, but he is not a contender", 
        "i'm not being serious", 
        "I'd like to see Frankie get the call, so he can eat some steak and be ready to fight him at 155.\n\nI don't know what the logistics of that look like... a 145 ranked guy vs the 145 champ at 155? Would it even be for a belt?\n\nBut I think he's most deserving.\n\nI'm sure that won't happen though.\n\nI'd love to see vs Cerrone though.\n\nEdit: Looks like Frankie's injuried, too. So much for that!", 
        "Frankie is also injured apparently", 
        "Yeah, JUST saw that, damn.\n\nCan't win!", 
        "The McGregor is starting to sound real!\n", 
        "> interim belt\n\nWhy?", 
        "Because Dos Anjos is a fucking moron and deserves to have his title de-legitimized just as much as Aldo did", 
        "im joking", 
        "Because a broken foot doesn't heal in a week and you can't tie up an entire division.", 
        "So? Last defense was two months ago. This is hardly tying up a division. At worst it is an inconvenience for McGregor. ", 
        "To make sure Cerrone doesn't win", 
        "To be fair, Cerrone's ONLY LOSSES since January of 2013 have been to RDA.\n\nSo it's not THAT far fetched.\n\nI mean, I don't think it should be for that. But he's beaten a lot more guys at 155 than Conor has. It should just be a normal fight. But Conor (like against Chad) wouldn't fight unless it was for a belt (IIRC, he whined about it not being for a belt, so they made it an IC)", 
        "> But Conor (like against Chad) wouldn't fight unless it was for a belt (IIRC, he whined about it not being for a belt, so they made it an IC)\n\nBut you can not make an interim belt when the last defense was two months ago. With Aldo you could make the case with 9 months even though you had Cain getting injured stepping out of bed but with dos Anjos you can not make an interim belt. ", 
        "I think that the UFC kind of does what it wants to with regard to that stuff.\n\nI mean -- I agree with you, and I think that it wouldn't be reasonable (at all).\n\nBut the UFC makes some strange decisions sometimes. So I wouldn't be THAT surprised.\n\nI was just saying that I think Conor put pressure on management to make sure it was for SOME kind of belt. And I wonder if he'll try to apply that same pressure here.", 
        "$$$$$", 
        "Don't think it should be for a interim belt, but that fight would be awesome to see.", 
        "Of course it shouldn't but $$$$$$$$", 
        "Brazilians constantly ducking Conor.", 
        "Dos Anjos is scared", 
        "That guy who's been on a murder rampage for the past 18 months and was about to get the biggest paycheck of his career by far by fighting the superstar from a lighter weight division?\n\nyeah... he's probably relieved to skip a few million dollars because he's scared to step into the octagon for the 33rd time.", 
        "Drug testing has him running scared. And camp insanity from McGregor.\nI booked Sunday the 6th off work for this fight :(", 
        "He has a broken foot and you honestly think he's trying to dodge drug tests? ", 
        "Thank you for scrolling to the bottom depths of this thread. But it no secret of the bazaar shit that happens in the Brazilian camp when it comes to drug testing. The above post was made as the story broke", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Shane-o-mac is back. Maybe that is the fight to make", 
        "Never go full brazilian", 
        "Conor is making history and this is bullshit.\nI think RDA should forfeit the belt so history can be made.\n\nHe can come back later and get it again.", 
        "I guess he likes being a bum\n", 
        "Doesn't want Conor to make his bum life. No red panties tonight.", 
        "RDA defended his LW belt just 2 months ago, and people are calling for interim title already?  ", 
        "the classic Brazilian pull out game", 
        "You can't say this and not post a link. where did you read/hear this?!", 
        "Top comment OP posted the tweet", 
        "Which is why he posted it after I wrote this...\n", 
        "Okay. Just letting you know ", 
        "I appreciate it mate. I'm literally crying at my office desk as we speak.", 
        "Call Cerrone", 
        "if this shits true, frankie better get the call. ", 
        "Frankie is injured and asking Conor to cut to 145 and take a title fight at FW on 2 weeks notice is literally retarded.\n\nit's going to be cowboy or Nate, otherwise they will postpone the fight which is unlikely cuz 196 will suck balls without Conor headlining.", 
        "did not realize frankie was injured. i was suggesting frankie just move up and have a non title fight. ", 
        "still wouldn't happen. I think Conor is way too big for Frankie at 155.\n\nonly wait Conor fights Frankie is for the title at FW.", 
        "Conor isnt makin fw so if frankie does get the fight and loses he has no title and if he wins he has no title.", 
        "just make it a non-title fight at 155. i feel like frankie would be down to move up and conor doesnt seem like the type that will turn down a fight. ", 
        "I should have explained it better if Conor beats Frankie at 155 Frankie will not get a title shot at 145 because he just lost to the champ even though it was a different weight class. Really hard to argue for a title fight when you just lost to the guy youd be facing it for. So unless Conor can cut to 145 which I doubt it's not happening both Dana and Frankie arent going to let that fight happen because it's a lose-lose for Edgar.", 
        "Holy shit, this is the best idea. Frankie vs Conor at 155.", 
        "He's injured apparently.", 
        "lol, he better start eating then, steak o clock", 
        "Holy fuck. I just told my boss yesterday, \"Yeah, Cowboy looked good and didn't take much damage. If RDA pulls out before March 5th he could probably step in to face Conor but they might have to make it a catchweight.\"\n\nFuck man. I'm sorry guys. Hopefully the rumor is false though. *Crosses fingers*", 
        "What have you done? WHAT HAVE YOU DONE????", 
        "Your username encapsulates my feelings at this moment.", 
        "Just got word from a trusted source that the UFC will replace Dos Anjos with not 1 but 2 opponents. Connor McGregor will be facing both Kimbo Slice and Dada 5000 at UFC 196 in the first handicap match in UFC history. ", 
        "All Conor would have to do is dodge a little and dada and kimbo would just fall over exhausted. ", 
        "The crazy thing isn't that he'd do it, he'd win", 
        "***FUCK THIS GAY EARTH***", 
        "For all the guys accusing him of training stupidly, are you on the Kings MMA team? How would you know what he's doing? I imagine these accusation are mostly from non-athletes, because breaking your foot is as easy as having someone holding Thai pads get lazy for 1/10th of a second.\n\n[When Cain Velasquez is shredding his ligaments with that retard trainer of his](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kAgFHS8HOLY), fair play on trashing him. But simply getting injured does not mean you were training stupidly.", 
        "\"Upgrade the software without damaging the hardware\"\nThey really need to listen to Conor's advice. ", 
        "Wait what, source?", 
        "It can't be real..", 
        "If it is true lets just thank the mma gods we still get to see conor fight someone", 
        "Really guys, dammit man, knew it was roo good to be....hopefully this is just a rumor....", 
        "https://twitter.com/martin_domin/status/702116516054044672\n\nBroken foot apparently. ", 
        "Fuck. Not even a torn muscle or something.", 
        "[**@martin\\_domin**](https://twitter.com/martin_domin/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 13:03 UTC](https://twitter.com/martin_domin/status/702116516054044672)\r\n\r\n> Reports in Brazil say Rafael dos Anjos has broken his foot and is out of his fight with Conor McGregor \\#UFC\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "and confirmed", 
        "Nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo", 
        "NOOOO", 
        "I shall be somewhat upset if this is true. Not as though there won't be some other 155'ers begging to step in though.", 
        "NOOOOOOOO :'(", 
        "Oh for fuck sake. This is brutal news, I was so goddamn hyped. 11 days to go :(. SO what will happen now, Diaz? Cerrone to move back down? \n\nNo way this will be for an interim belt either will just be a normal fight. ", 
        "There will be an interim fight but I don't see how it could be on this card.", 
        "Fuck you MMA gods!", 
        "FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU........................", 
        "......UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUCK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!", 
        "Interim title here we come baby", 
        "this cant be real this cant be real thjisbcanriorehjoih23eriohrioerhiNOOO!!!NOOOOOOO!!!!!!no....*no* *sobs***", 
        "For fuck's sake!", 
        "Shit. Please dont be true MMA gods.\n", 
        "FUCK", 
        "I wonder what Eddie Alvarez is up to right now.", 
        "At least Cerrone did recently say that he wants to fight within the next two weeks and was serious about it. Still, worst fucking news to wake up to man, was so excited about that fight. I think McGregor SMACKS Cerrone to be honest though :(", 
        "Fuck it", 
        "A more exciting fight would be nate vs conor. ", 
        "Big Nate fan but hed die", 
        "Also I would like to add that i would still pay $60 to see Nate Stockton slap Conor.", 
        "Big Nate fan too, but this would be a great last minute change that would make fans want to purchase this card. IMO.", 
        "Fack", 
        "It's a shame.  Really wanted to see this match up.", 
        "This is comical. \nHow are these guy expecting to be in the good grace of the ufc ?", 
        "Khabib, Pettis, Nate, or Cowboy.\n\nOr, fuck it, maybe Aldo ", 
        "Fuck sake deja vu all over again.", 
        "FUCKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK", 
        "Fuck sake :( Cerrone or Diaz as a replacement please!", 
        "This is legit the worst news i've heard in a while.\n\nI'm so fucking pissed. 1 fucking week. ONE MOTHERFUCKING WEEK", 
        "at least it wasn't a few days before, i guess", 
        "God fucking damn it.\n\n\nI knew this fight was too good to be true", 
        "You know what...I bet Frankie Edgar can make 155lbs.", 
        "According to Ariel, Frankie is injured.", 
        "Why do I get the feeling this happens a lot to Conor?", 
        "Conor will not fight unless its for a belt so if he stays on the card at lightweight it would have to be an interim belt.", 
        "Diaz probably? Frankie apparently injured and even though Cowboy wants another fight he was at 170lbs so who knows", 
        "How have we angered you, o' MMA Gods.", 
        "punishment for kimbo vs dada", 
        "C'mon Frankie Edgar! Save this card!", 
        "He's dealing with an injury right now too", 
        "Fuck, are you serious? ", 
        "Yep. Per a Helwani tweet: \"If you\u2019re clamoring for Edgar, he\u2019s unavailable, I\u2019m told. Dealing w/ an injury.\"", 
        "Well shit, I am fucking pissed!", 
        "FUCK OFF", 
        "WHAT A FUCKING JOKE!! UGHHHHH. GOD DAMN IT", 
        "[Oh ok](http://i.imgur.com/JTjXht4.gif)", 
        "I'm happy in a weird way, I was not prepared enough for this to happen that fast. It should main event UFC 200.", 
        "Damn, this sucks. I can't wait to hear how much sh*t talking mcgregor dishes out for this one. I hope they keep him on the card for a non title fight vs Cerrone or Diaz.", 
        "Disaster, Conor won't be bumped from the main event, so you have to do for an interim belt or move him off the card entirely.", 
        "To think Curson focuses on foot strength... Must have kicked a knee or an elbow? ", 
        "Fuck this life.", 
        "So if it is Cowboy/Diaz, this has to be at Welterweight doesn't it? They cannot safely drop the weight in time?\n\nCan we get Halloway rematch or Aldo if he is in shape to fight? ", 
        "Good thing literally anyone on the roster will fight him on two weeks notice just for the exposure/money. ", 
        "Oh goddamit. Not again!! Why have the gods forsaken us ", 
        "Conor vs cowboy or diaz. Mark my words.", 
        "https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702120456229404672  \n\n*\"Spoke to Cerrone\u2019s mgmt team this morning. They are interested in taking the fight. He\u2019s on the shortlist, for sure.\"*\n\n&nbsp;\n\nLooks like Cowboy and his management are is interested. Do we have any examples of a fighter fighting at one weight and cutting to fight again at another weight within the space of 2 weeks?", 
        "As a Conor fan, this is music to my ears. I'd love to see him get a warm-up at Lightweight with Nate or Cowboy, before fighting RDA - which would have never happened. As an MMA fan, it's disappointing - could make an awesome UFC 200 fight though! ", 
        "Cowboy talked the talk now lets see him walk it. ", 
        "WHAT THE FUUUUUUUUUUUUCK", 
        "FUCK ", 
        "what a shitty thing to wake up to this morning.  ", 
        "At the press conference, given how adamant Dana was that Conor was still the 145lb champion and he was fighting for the 155lb title, I honestly think that they take him off the card.", 
        "Go get some Donald Cerroneeeee", 
        "[NO GOD PLEASE NO](https://media.giphy.com/media/12XMGIWtrHBl5e/giphy.gif)", 
        "One time... Just ONE TIME, I want a massive fight to go according to plan", 
        "UFC 197 is 8 weeks out. Depending on how bad this broken foot is, push it to 197 and make a super duper 3 title main event.", 
        "Honey, on second thought, don't break out those red panties.", 
        "Oh for fuck sake ... i already had the shittiest day ever and now this ...", 
        "So Conor vs RDA HAS to be rescheduled for UFC 200 right? I'm sure they'll find Conor a fight for this card as well but it seems like they need UFC 200 fights.", 
        "frankie heart attack in 3,2,1", 
        "WOW\n\nFucking horrible news, what the fuck?!", 
        "Khabib?", 
        "It's damn true :( ", 
        "McGregor has them running scared!", 
        "Cowboy Diaz triple threat match!", 
        "I heard Antonio Silva accidentally stepped on his foot ", 
        "wow, garbage! ", 
        "Give Aldo the rematch he deserves.  Make it at 155", 
        "aw what the fuck!!!", 
        "Come the fuck on man.", 
        "Fuck the MMA gods", 
        "Groundhog day!", 
        "Conor will only fight for the belt... so Conor vs Cowbow is not happening....", 
        "FUCK", 
        "Man waking up to this totally fucking sucks but oh well wish RDA a speed recovery. Fighters need to train a bit smarter.", 
        "W\nT\nF\n!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!", 
        "Starting to get a bit hard to deal with the fact that every time Conor has a big title fight coming, his opponent suddenly gets hurt and has to pull out. I know injuries happen, but goddamn how do you get injuries like this 11 days out from a huge fight?\n\nConor could make the argument that he deserves the championships just because he's not getting hurt before every fight and pulling out at this point.", 
        "I woke up hoping this was a joke... Damn it. \n\nHopefully Nate gets the replacement. I'm sure Cowboy will jump at it, too, but I wonder if he can cut the weight in a rather short amount of time.", 
        "Huh, where else I have seen a fighter pull out a few weeks ahead of time and have someone come in on short notice to take on Conor?", 
        "What is wrong with MMA?", 
        "McGregor will likely  fight if it's for interim title. Diaz is probably a more lucrative option. ", 
        "I just woke up and read this. Motherfucker", 
        "Deja fucking VU", 
        "so Conor for interim belt and then Dos Anjos v Conor. Same as before? Marketing?", 
        "Can you imagine the sheer amount of shit talking that would go down in a two week period if it's Diaz? Cerrone doesn't need this fight, Diaz needs his ass beat, Diaz would be a win win. ", 
        "Something about software and hardware.", 
        "I'm sooooo piss. You're not suppose to do ANYTHING this intense to freaking injure yourself, less than two weeks before a fight. You're suppose to  LIGHHHTTTT training dumbass. Even RDA was saying, on instagram, that the camp was almost over and he was doing light shit.\n\nOh god i'm so pissed this morning. ", 
        "Otario Otario ", 
        "Love Nate but he'd die if he fought Conor", 
        "This fight was always too good to be true... This really sucks.", 
        "Didn't Dos Anjos and Werdum train in the same gym?", 
        "FUCK.", 
        "Dos Anjos should feel ashamed , missed out on a huge payday and disappointed the fans.", 
        "Well done Dos Anjos. Absolute clown. \n\nHope they release a video of him doing some ridiculous hard sparring and breaking it so McGregor can talk shit for weeks on him. \n\nAnother absolute letdown courtesy of Brazil.", 
        "by using Sonnen gangster logic; Conor is now 2 division champ?", 
        "Fucking fuck. Damn it RDA, fuck. ", 
        "So now what Mcgregor Vs Cerrone or Diaz for the interim LW title ...not appealing to me at all considering RDA dusted them both and conor will do the same , edgar is hurt so he cant fight him first and Aldo well we dont need another brazillian to pull out again..... Mcgregor Vs Eddie Alvarez would be better ", 
        "Fuck . ", 
        "this is tragic", 
        "Man fuck this shit. This is such BS.", 
        " For fucks sake.\n\nThis will be my second event I have attended ever, and the second event that the main event fell through.\n\nFirst was 187: Jones vs Johnson, and now this one.\n\nSorry guys, I cursed this shit.", 
        "http://img.pandawhale.com/123079-Disney-Hercules-Hades-god-fuck-og5s.gif\n\nall I can say...", 
        "I woke up to this and I swear my first words to say were \"ohh shit\"! \nI want either Diaz or Cerrone in there !!! ", 
        "What a pain in the dick.", 
        "FUCK. You asshole Dos Anjos.", 
        "https://pbs.twimg.com/tweet_video/Cb5sOe1W8AAvzEd.mp4", 
        "I hope not Cerrone. He would get mauled before he \"starts up\".", 
        "Fucks sake", 
        "Nick broke RDAs foot so his bro could get the fight...Just kidding...", 
        "what. the. fuck.", 
        "Fucking stupid moron.  Couldn't stay healthy for his millions of dollars.", 
        "Fuck..Fuck...FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUCCCCCCCCCKKKKKKKKKKK", 
        "I read this as Dos Santos and was like what's the big deal, then it hit me......", 
        "What about Ferguson for the interim belt?", 
        "God dammit ,fucking Brazilian's man  http://media0.giphy.com/media/10QDnTeWjie8cE/200w.gif", 
        "Oh god no. Conor really makes guys injured before the fights. lol. booo. so amped for the fight now i'm just like whoever he fights in replacement, is going to lose to conor now. ", 
        "God damn it...", 
        "Fucking MMA Gods. Fuck all of youse!", 
        "Interim belt again? A broken foot takes time to recover...", 
        "Just give him the welterwght shot now", 
        "well that sucks :( been hyping myself since the Aldo fight", 
        "[JINX](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/473ll8/cowboy_cerrone_would_like_to_fight_next_week_in/d0aises?context=3)", 
        "Idk why people want cerrone over diaz.  Diaz would destroy cerrone again plus I wanna see McG's reaction to the Stockton slap", 
        "Ugh\n", 
        "I've been checking each morning to see when this fight would be cancelled.  I knew it wasn't to be.  Being an MMA fan is torture.", 
        "R.I.P my day :( ", 
        "No, nope, no no no, nuh uh. NO.", 
        "Fuck that give him fankie", 
        "Aahhhhhh shit", 
        "Oh for fucks sake", 
        "Diaz vs. McGregor\n\nCowboy vs. McGregor", 
        "Wonderboy vs Conor at catch-weight is the only thing that would appease me now.  Fucking Kimbo Vs Dada happened, but Conor's opponents drop out like flies. Damn it.", 
        "There was no training done...", 
        "Will this be for the interim belt? How is that decision made? In regards to when Aldo was out. ", 
        "I wouldn't want to be anything breakable within Dana's reach right now...\n\nThere is a reason that he has no hair, this must be incredibly frustrating.", 
        "Just came home to this news fuck, fuck fuck.", 
        "Ariel just tweeted that Pettis wants the fight now too. ", 
        "Is anyone surprised this happened? When I saw it first thing on reddit this morning, I was sad, but far from shocked.", 
        "This is pretty bizarre. If Conor does fight someone like Diaz or Cerrone and wins, I'd still prefer to see the lightweight superfight over his Featherweight title defense. However, as much as Dos Anjos-Mcgregor at UFC 200 is appealing, this would hold up the Featherweight division even longer, especially if Mcgregor gets injured in any of the two fights(assuming he goes the lightweight route)", 
        "I'd like to see Conor fight Khabib. They'd probably have to do what they did with Mendez and make it for an interm belt.", 
        "NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO\n\nedit: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO", 
        "Wtf? Delayed again just like the Connor/Aldo fight. This sucks.", 
        "I'd like to see Cowboy, Pettis, or Nate Diaz. ", 
        "Conor v Cowboy for the interim belt", 
        "This makes me sad.", 
        "Robbie vs McGregor!!!!!!", 
        "Well...\n\nThere goes my erection.", 
        "LMAOOOOOO", 
        "Notherfucking. Fuck, please tell me im dreaming!", 
        "Dammit...who jinxed this fight? Raise your hand!!!", 
        "People need to stop training like morons. ", 
        "Aldo vs McGregor II\nLawler vs Mcgregor\n\nIf frankie is out!", 
        "RDA, you fucking goof. I believe in the conspiracies at this point.", 
        "Jeez, Dos Anjo's literally wanted to break he's foot off in Coner's ass. ", 
        "I can't describe how disappointed I am. \ud83d\ude14", 
        "If he indeed broke his pinky toe, what kind of turnaround are we looking at for the fight??", 
        "This... this is fucking bullshit. ", 
        "I don't think he'll have enough time to heal to fight at UFC 200 either. There would still be a lot of pain and the chance of breaking it again would be very high. ", 
        "I feel like a 6 year old boy who's mother just took his Lego away. ", 
        "why", 
        "Dos Anjos said \"yo you should all take turns stomping in this foot\"", 
        "NATE DIAZ 209 BITCHES", 
        "Fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you", 
        "Pettis vs McGregor please. ", 
        "Too bad for 2 Angels.", 
        "Disgusting Dos Anjos", 
        "Edgar vs Connor", 
        "My heart is crushed. I think cowboy steps in. I'd actually be disappointed if it was Diaz, that fight needs a proper press tour. \n\nI'd watch Showtime vs mystic Mac as well, don't think it happens though with Pettis coming off of two losses. ", 
        "haha lol so its interimbelt again for Connor. I knew this was gonna happen just like with Aldo.", 
        "FUUUUUCCKCKKKKKKKK", 
        "Fuck!", 
        "Connor vs werdum lets go!!!", 
        "Paul Felder would be a fun replacement ", 
        "There's Dos Anjos, just use the other one!!", 
        "Surely it will be Cerrone seen as he is fresh and took little to no damage on Sunday", 
        "I would really like to see Ceronne fight him. I think that without the build-up that the Dos Anjos fight had, he'll be less nervous. Idk how well he would do, but I'm excited nonetheless.", 
        "well aint this some bullshit to wake up to ", 
        "We talked to Dede..ufc call him but they refuse in fight in such a short time and another weight\n\nhttp://agfight.band.uol.com.br/treinador-revela-que-recusou-oferta-para-aldo-substituir-dos-anjos-no-ufc-196/", 
        "God damn it.", 
        "Straight to welterweight?", 
        "McGregor vs Anthony Pettis for the interim pls Dana.", 
        "God fucking damn it.", 
        "So seriously though...how about Khabib? He's supposed to fight in April anyways, so that means he's not injured right now right?", 
        "I was thinking that same thing...and then I googled and found this. http://www.sportsjoe.ie/mma/report-ufc-turned-down-khabib-nurmagomedovs-offer-to-step-in-against-conor-mcgregor/66447\n", 
        "It's Gilbert Melendez time", 
        "The clear decision here would be to start selling Conor McGregor's fights as 'buy one get one free'...", 
        "As much as it doesn't really make sense to do it, they should make another interim belt to send a message to all these Brazilians getting injured days before their big fights. They need better training methods or something, I don't know. ", 
        "So we have Nate Diaz, Tony Ferg, Mabey Khabib. Who ever can make the weight. Any of them should be a good test on how conor would perform at 155 against the elite. ", 
        "It was surprising how few fighters were prepared to step in when Aldo got injured. \nYou'd think with fighters being so eager to get the McGregor money, that a couple of smart guys would have preparred for this exact outcome of RDA dropping out but it seems they've all been caught off-guard again a la Chad Mendes.\n", 
        "This really sucks, so close to happening", 
        "On the plus side, now I'll just buy 197 which is even better than the two mains, which are the reason I wanted 196.", 
        "Conor should not take a new opponent. Wait for RDA or wait for a new fighter at 145 (or Frankie). \n\nWhat does he have to gain fighting some random person at a catch weight over 155?", 
        "Money ", 
        "If he loses a fight randomly to a bigger guy without the belt- or wins but gets injured, wouldn't he be leaving more money on the table?", 
        "Here's the thing. Conor likes the belts, yes, but he likes spending money more. He needs to make money to spend. He literally spends all the money he makes, or it seems that way anyway. He's even cited saying that he spends a large amount and will just make more. He'll fight for prize over pride any day.", 
        "Is the source just a link to this thread? I'm so confused.", 
        "Damn. I was looking forward to this fight as much if not more than the return of Jon Jones.", 
        "WHAT?", 
        "Noooooooo", 
        "I thought this was a joke", 
        "FFS. This is why I don't bother watching embeddeds or any hype videos. I'll only believe they'll fight after Bruce buffer introduces them.", 
        "Being immune to this type of news sure is great. ", 
        "This is becoming the common trend for UFC fights, I will no longer get hyped. ", 
        "Rumor Nate Diaz got offered the fight \nhttp://www.bjpenn.com/mma-news/nate-diaz/rumor-nate-diaz-gets-conor-mcgregor-fight/", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=31g0YE61PLQ", 
        "just checking in, on the shit storm", 
        "Diaz just isn't too the caliber of aldo or rda. This is disappointing...", 
        "Bring on Frankie for the belt!!!!!!!!!!!!!! OMG that'd be badass and save the logistical nightmare of all the fans from Ireland that have already paid so much money to make it to the fight.", 
        "already been shot down frankie is hurt ", 
        "DAMMIT, that would have been epic.", 
        "FAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACCCCCCCCCCKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\n", 
        "Is it just me or are we having a lot more training injuries happen in the last 2 years. I haven't done any actual research. It just feels like theres a change because of some kind of training accident every other month. Maybe they need change how they train? I mean the point is to be ready fight not to kill yourself in the process. ", 
        "Injuries and pulling out of fights started shooting through the roof after the UFC started paying medical insurance. ", 
        "welp.... what do we do now? :/ ", 
        "Why can't we have the fights we want??", 
        "I really hope the RDA ducking this fight angle doesn't get much play. This is a completely different situation than the original Aldo pull out. The more hype that gets blown into this narrative, the more tempted the UFC will be to fix Connor's upcoming fights. ", 
        "Well I'm fairly certain Cerrone will step up.", 
        "fuck off shit fucking fuck fukc\n", 
        "Wuuuuuuuuut", 
        "COWBOY!!!!", 
        "JUST FOCK MY SHIET UP", 
        "FUCK!!!", 
        "Watch them give an interim title fight hahaha", 
        "Okay boys #natediaz leggo", 
        "Why does this keep happening to conor?", 
        "Because Brazilians.", 
        "And NEW Interim Lightweight Champion!", 
        "FUCK!!!", 
        "I'm wearing my UFC hoodie and some dude at the gas station said Dos Anjos pulled out of the fight. \n\nHe was right :/", 
        "for fucks sake", 
        "Ffffffuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuck", 
        "No no. No no no fucking nooo", 
        "Just let Conor fight two lesser opponents in one day, just like the old UFC.", 
        "Your wish came true", 
        "oh god hes gone running /s", 
        "Brazillians can't handle the pressure leading up to a fight with McGregor!!. Jokes aside, I really hope this is just a rumor.", 
        "You know what this means? Frankie Edgar gets screwed again. Chances are they make RDA vs. Conor (if he wins against whatever replacement) for UFC 200.", 
        "Cowboy plz!", 
        "After getting lit up in the last RDA fight, as much as I'd like to see cowboy v mcgregor, I don't think cowboy deserves it.", 
        "Next up: Conor McGregor fights Donald Cerrone for the Interim UFC Lightweight Title.", 
        "I'd be okay with that. ", 
        "I wonder if Cerrone would be able to make the weight at 155 on this short of notice after having just fought at 170 and probably putting on a little mass.", 
        "Sheeeeeeeiiiiittttt.", 
        "Confirmed - http://www.mmafighting.com/2016/2/23/11098398/rafael-dos-anjos-injured-out-of-ufc-196-main-event-fight-against", 
        "The game is on it's knees. Literally.", 
        "YOU CANNOT BE SERIOUS RIGHT NOW\n\nHE IS DUCKING OR WHAT HOW IS HE INJURED WHEN FIGHTCAMP IS OVER FUUUUUUUCK", 
        "DIAZ!!! or go fuck your mother UFC", 
        "This. ", 
        "Feed McGregor to Khabib!! (He's healthy and prepping for a fight, right?) ", 
        "Khabib fighting Ferguson i believe in a few months.would love to see it though ", 
        "I'm getting out my tin foil hat! For weeks there have been comments all over this sub about how the event seems to be under-marketed and now the cancellation... maybe it was never meant to go ahead? jet fuel can't melt steel beams. ", 
        "So is he gonna be the 'interim' champ for this weight class too until he can fight Dos Anjos?", 
        "Tony Ferg?", 
        "Give it to Nate, I wanna hear the shit talking", 
        "I would actually like to see a Poirier rematch, probably the best match up for McGregor ", 
        "McGregor is really getting shorted here. He will get a big pay day but any having to fight on short notice, again I might add, in a weight class that he has never fought before. It really makes no sense for McGregor to fight anyone in the weight class outside of RDA. I have a suspicion it will be Cowboy who gets tapped to join the fight and this is bad news for McGregor. Cowboy is a tough match up for him and has absolutely nothing to lose by taking the fight where as McGregor has plenty to lose. If McGregor loses it will be hard to justify giving him the title shot once Dos Anjos comes back.", 
        "The man is running scared...", 
        "Eddie or Khabib vs Conor for interim belt, just like last time. Why would Conor accept less at this point?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Fuck it, bring in Frankie at lightweight for the interim title.  ", 
        "Has an injury ever been faked before to get out of a fight to train a bit longer? They going to take him to a UFC doctor like they did Aldo?", 
        "Is Lawler ready? how about McGregor v Lawler at 170 for the welterweight belt", 
        "make it an Aldo rematch then!", 
        "Aldo is still out cold isn't he?", 
        "Joke aside, they only just let Ronda Rousey back into training just now and since his fight was only a month after hers, i would doubt he has gotten back to full contact training since their last fight", 
        "What I find even more disappointing is that the guys who were talking the most about Conor avoiding them, are giving excuses on why they can't fight him now. \n\nAldo said he deserves an instant title rematch, gets a chance and balks on another Conor fight. \n\nEdgar who is over of my favorite fighters, was complaining about not getting a Conor fight, was borderline desperate in an attempt to fight him next, also balks at fight. \n\nIf I'm Conor, no way do I risk fighting Pettis or Cerrone for no real reason. \n\nDiaz makes sense financially and is a better match up. Not as risky and is a huge payday. ", 
        "Edgar is injured and Aldo haven't been training at 100% since December. Can't expect either one of them to step in.", 
        "Interim belt incoming.....3.....2....1......and now 2 division champion", 
        "I hear Cowboy's looking for a fight.\n\nCatchweight 160?", 
        "Give jose the rematch at 155", 
        "he already turned it down citing being out of shape", 
        "Cancel the fight pass card and move the Spider-Bisbing fight to co-main.", 
        "A lot of these Brazilians really don't like fighting Conor.\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Okay.\n\nNow Conor will face and beat the best wrestler of the division, beat RDA in record time once the match happens, and then move up another division for another title shot.\n\nI have accepted this as inevitable fate.\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702116889955328000", 
        "[**@arielhelwani**](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 13:04 UTC](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702116889955328000)\r\n\r\n> Rafael dos Anjos injured, out of UFC 196 main event fight against Conor McGregor -- http://www.mmafighting.com/2016/2/23/11098398/rafael-dos-anjos-injured-out-of-ufc-196-main-event-fight-against?utm_campaign=arielhelwani&utm_content=chorus&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter \n\n>[[Attached pic]](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cb5rl1NW0AAIJ4P.jpg) [[Imgur rehost]](http://i.imgur.com/Ltt5F6S.jpg)\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "Ana Hissa has 35k followers", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This cunt is telling it like it really is", 
        "Must've broke it while running for his life from McGregor. Poor wittle baby, those Brazilian fighters are always the biggest bitches. ", 
        "He hurt his little toe. :.(......\n\nBrazilians getting themselves hurt 2 weeks before having to fight Conor is becoming a trend now.", 
        "On the bright side, this sacrifice ensures Weidman will make it through. ", 
        "Who cares about that..", 
        "There's so many injuries with the champs lately. I wonder if they are legitimate sometimes or if they are worried about losing and want to retain the belt longer.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I get your point on 1 and 3. But when people are the champ they tend to get more recognition which means more sponsorships and more money. Besides the fan favorites and well more known fighters, companies are gonna want to spend more money sponsoring the champs. Before you call something retarded, perhaps you should realize the intention and point trying to be made.", 
        "Oh for fucks sake. I have two reactions to this: \n\n1. This is the second time Mcgregor has been scheduled to fight a Brazilian champ and they have pulled out with an injury ~2 weeks out from the fight. Sounds like Brazilian camps need to change something to minimize the risk of injury.\n\nAnd \n\n2. I can only imagine how Mystic Mac is gonna spin this. He already said Dos Anjos was a bum Aldo. Lol. Hes really following in his footsteps now. ", 
        "RDA could have tripped over his dog and broke his foot for all we know.", 
        "get fucking Tony Ferguson in there!!! he'd annihilate connor maybe the UFC is scared to make that fight happen", 
        "The lack of interest in him as a replacement should tell you that they can't sell him especially on 11 days notice.", 
        "lets see a picture of dos anjos foot, i want evidence!", 
        "I just knew this would happen as soon as donald cerrone came out and said \"i wanna fight in a week or two\" so I called up my bookie and bet him that rda would get injured. Easiest grand in my life.", 
        "Dodging the drug test!", 
        "SOMEBODY CALL FRANKIE EDGAR!!!!!!!", 
        "He's unavailable. Dealing with an injury according to Helwani on Twitter.\n\n\nhttps://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702118962671308801", 
        "Karma for the UFC booking a fight that should've never been booked.  ", 
        "What'chu talkin' 'bout, Willis?", 
        "As a student who's already spent 1k on going to this fight I will be seriously pissed if they don't get a replacement. 5 nights in vegas will be fucking mental regardless but fuck what a let down. Pls diaz cerrone anyone.", 
        "Conor should 100% also get injured, and pull out. (I.e. Werduuuumm)", 
        "Diaz has a two inch reach advantage. He's no slouch at boxing, and he has a good ground game. That could be a tough match up for McGregor. Cerrone would be a good one too. That said didn't RDA just obliterate both of these guys? It might not be in McGregors interest to fight them if he can't do the same. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[**@SpeedofSport**](https://twitter.com/SpeedofSport/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-23 16:17 UTC](https://twitter.com/SpeedofSport/status/702165451015458816)\r\n\r\n> Just to clarify, RDA's injury was a freak accident that occurred while sparring, he kicked, partner checked and fractured fifth metatarsal.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "Take your pick on why it was removed: there's a sticky for discussing developments (sticky), it was already reported that RDA was injured (repost), and there's already a thread discussing it, which is where new material should be directed (spam).", 
        "Cerrone is a bit anticlimactic vs Conor. Why fight the guy Dos Anjos just knocked out.. Nate at least was 2 years ago and is coming of a win. You could speculate how a fight with Dos Anjos would go today, but with Cowboy its doesn't do much for the fans", 
        "What?", 
        "Whats the mystery? Dos Anjos just beat Cerrone, why give the contender the guy that just lost to one he was gonna fight. Makes no sense.", 
        "Fuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuck", 
        "REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE", 
        "What about Eddie Alvalrez? Or would UFC keep him safe to fight for the belt after Conor and RDA get to fight. ", 
        "Alvarez would get mopped", 
        "Straight to 170 and face lawler?", 
        "Khabib would be interesting as a replacement although everybody wants Cerrone/ Diaz.", 
        "The luck of the Irish ", 
        "Bones Jones.  \n\nFirst time I'd root for Jones\n", 
        "Jones has like 60 pounds on McGregor...", 
        "Yes.  It would have been glorious.  ;)", 
        "Fuck RDA for this bullshit. This better be a real break and not some baby fracture. ", 
        "Nate got the fight. Confirmed. Check your Twitter!", 
        "HES SCARED", 
        "Mystic Mac didn't predict this shit did he? I thought he predicted deez tings.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4FOGVUX9W_M\n\nAbout 5:03. He even points at his left leg when he says little sore toe and it's RDA's left foot.", 
        "How about Eddie Alvarez? ", 
        "Diaz, Cerrone or Joe Duffy. All fights I would watch. ", 
        "i predict dese tings", 
        "Fuck it. Interim belt. Make this fight still mean something and keep the fans happy. ", 
        "what is with the scum pulling out and hurting themselves\n\ni say kick RDA from his title and let someone available in the top 5 fight for it (again) with conor..\n", 
        "I know the idea of fighters faking injury is pretty silly usually, but a foot break would be really possible to perform in a controlled, and recoverable, manner. If it means avoiding your hype train getting derailed by the McG, I'm sure RDGay would be willing to kick a board at increasing velocity at a pre-defined angle until it hurt.", 
        "Are you also 16?", 
        "Man, this is infuriating! RDA has already accepted defeat in his mind. I hope Conor bestows him a swift 5 seconds KO the next time they fight. Fooking coward! \ud83d\ude21", 
        "So much speculation on RDA training too hard and PED usage. No one here knows anything about either. Who knows how he broke it or how hard he was training. And his physique is obtainable naturally it just takes hard work, even less hard work than someone puts in to be the champion. ", 
        "COWAAAAAAAAAAAAAARD", 
        "I say cancel the Tony Ferguson fight and give Khabib a crack at McGregor. ", 
        "Khabib offered to fill in and the UFC said, No! Shameful shameful actions by a company wanting to protect its cash cow", 
        "agree 100%", 
        "Dozens of fighters are begging for the fight. Why would they give it to a bloke that has poor name recognition, hasn't fought in 2 years, pulled out of his last two fights, and refused to fight at UFC 200 less than 24 hours ago.  \n", 
        "The fights at 170 pounds according to the article.", 
        "So for someone who only has started following MMA the past year or so, can you explain what good this does for Conor to be at 170? I thought Nate was a lightweight, are they fighting at 170 because Nate doesn't have a full camp to make the cut?", 
        "Its pretty much too late to get an acceptable fight for Conor at 155.  \n\nSo I'm guessing the UFC said fuck it and is trying to make the most entertaining fight at 170.  Even with a full camp Nate has had a hard time making the cut to 155 so he tried fighting Rory at 170 and got ragdolled badly.\n\nEven Conor haters have to give respect to Conor for taking the fight at 170.  This is something that he absolutely does not have to do.  Even taking a late notice fight at 155 is something that he is not obligated to do.\n\nSo stop all the bitching and grab your popcorn because this is a pure fan service entertainment fight.", 
        "Nate fought mostly at lightweight, but he has also fought at welterweight.  Cutting a bunch of weight on short notice likely means we wouldn't get to see Nate at his best.  As for what good it does McGregor, it means he doesn't have to cut much weight either.  He's already guaranteed a shot at the lightweight title, so it doesn't matter what weight class he fights at against Nate, as long as he wins.", 
        "Exactly. ", 
        "Exactly and conor would still need to cut quite a bit to make LW. At WW both guys can focus on the fight and not cutting weight for 2 weeks ", 
        "It's good for Conor because he doesn't have to cut to 155 either. In the end it's the best outcome for both fighters.", 
        "Spot on with that last comment. Nate's a big LW and has had trouble making weight in the past with full camps. 11 days to only focus on cutting weight would've been rough.\n\nConor's being a cool guy accepting this fight at 170. Of course, it means he gets to keep eating steak a little longer too, but really this fight at 170 is better for Nate than for him.", 
        "Correct. Nate doesn't have enough time to get down to 155 so they're just doing it at 170 for the hell of it. ", 
        "Gotcha, that makes sense. Thanks!", 
        "No brutal weight cut. Nice.", 
        "MOTHEROFGAWDDDDD", 
        "Anyone know McGregor's current weight?  Will he even have to do a significant cut at all or is he already almost good to go?", 
        "They were saying 175.  ", 
        "He's good to go. He says he walks around at 170-180, so it shouldn't be a rough weight cut.", 
        "Conor's camp will never tell. But he is big now. We all know that. Now is the time he normally would start his cut. Now he won't have to start that painful process since it is at WW.", 
        "He was supposed to fight at 155 and made 145 two months ago. I don't think he cuts 5 pounds to make 170.\n\nNobody will be fucked from the weight cut, that's awesome.", 
        "I've heard his walking weight is typically ~170-180 so he shouldn't have to cut nearly as much", 
        "It's going to be interesting to see if not having to cut weight will effect their endurance and performance", 
        "Definitely, from what I've heard Diaz has amazing cardio and McGregor's training makes it seem like he does as well. But the added weight will definitely be a factor, especially since McGregor has never fought at 170.", 
        "So...is this now a welterweight bout, officially? or are they calling this some kind of weird LW catch weight?\n\nIs Conor going to be ranked at WW after this? WTF", 
        "No 1. contender bayyyyyybeeeeeee", 
        "\"I'm the real wonder boy of this division. He's a wonderboy I'm a wonderman. The only thing he's wondering is which round I'm going to knock him out in\"", 
        "This fucked everything up huh?  Divisions don't even make sense anymore this is kind awesome.  ", 
        "Gotta take my hat off to Conor, the guy doesn't back down or give a shit. Granted, he has a big training advantage but he could have been really picky about the weight.", 
        "I'm a fan of Nate and this is kinda scary.  My boy doesn't have the best habits to just be taking a fight against Mcgregor on short notice lol.  Has he even been training??  I'm hoping he shocks the world but I don't have a ton of confidence in it.  ", 
        "Well no Diaz is still a lightweight fighter but he just can't make the weight on such short notice.", 
        "Yeah I know...it's just weird that this is a LW fight at Welterweight", 
        "In perfect world where guys fought at their natural weight, this is how it would be.", 
        "Yes it's at 170. No why would he be ranked? He's fighting Nate who also isn't ranked at 170. They're just making it at 170 bc Nate would have tough time making 155 in 12 days.", 
        "I'm not sure what he was talking about with Conor getting a ranking, but I wonder, will this fight put McG on the WW roster?", 
        "I'm pumped for this fight, but doesn't really make sense that they wouldn't have given him Cowboy if that was the case.\n\n", 
        "Cowboy just fought like days ago, there might be behind the scenes stuff like a commission ban or the UFC brass unwilling to make a fighter turn around that fast.", 
        "Omg I'm shocked by this. Conor fears no one it's awesome. Dude is true to his word. He will fight no matter what. All he has in the world is his word and his balls and doesn't break them for nobody lol", 
        "Damn. Can't say I saw that one coming. Figured Diaz doesn't walk around too much over 155? It'll be VERY interesting to see how McGregor looks at 170. We know how he looks at 155 from past fights.\n\nAlso, a great way to preserve the McGregor v RDA fight for UFC 200.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Because of the way weight cuts work I think they all walk around at well over their fighting weight.  ", 
        "Nate wouldn't go under 165. Not sure he's actually walking around at 170 right now. Cause five pounds in a week and a half wouldn't be bad. ", 
        "Nate Diaz fought at 170 4 times already.He even fought Rory MacDonald", 
        "Frankie gets to wait even longer now rofl, or they can do an Aldo Edgar match now around the same time, as a title eliminator.", 
        "he walks around closer to 170", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I trained with him the other day and he looked pretty lean. Problem is if you are that lean there's not much to drop weight from.", 
        "Nate has fought at 170 before. They probably agreed on it so neither guy would have to cut much (if at all).", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Keep in mind MacDonald is one of the best, Top 3 perhaps at 170, so weight wasn't the only factor. ", 
        "Nate still has to cut weight to get to 170 when he's fighting in the 170 division. ", 
        "Well he's bigger than Conor, so he shouldn't have that to worry about, but I agree with you on his punching power. Nate has to be careful.", 
        "Nate already fought a Mac at 170.. He got taken to suplexville..", 
        "Man, I forgot how much of an absolute ass-kicking that fight was. Remind me again why all the Diaz brother nuthuggers think that they are legitimate fighters?", 
        "except this Mac has no ground game whatsoever ", 
        "if mcg suplex'd diaz how crazy would this sub on a scale of one to ten", 
        "You know the answer isn't on that scale. ", 
        "Full retard. ", 
        "Yeah but Rory is an authentic welter weight, a big one at that. Conor isn't walking around at 200 plus. Or maybe he is who fuckin knows what that guy is made of.", 
        "Indeed he is, don't see guys like Rory, Robbie, etc cutting down to 145. ", 
        "It's a bumpy ride to Suplexcity. ", 
        "Ah Sageweight.", 
        "Mcgregor gets the title as most game in my oppinion. Really did nate a solid. ", 
        "Especially considering he ducked alverez and khabib. Good on mcgregor! ", 
        "Nah... Cowboy is most game by volume alone.\r\n\r\nConor probably got the biggest balls.", 
        "Salad McGregor skips the steak and goes straight for Johny's venison.  ", 
        "Whoa, that's big news for Nate. That weight cut was going to be rough.", 
        "more power for the slap!", 
        "Holy shit! What if he slaps Mcgregor at a conference!", 
        "He could've taken it at 155 which would've been rough on Nate. McGregor ain't no bitch. BJ Penn 2.0", 
        "B.J fighting Machida at heavyweight/openweight was the most ballsy thing I've seen in mma.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Boy, how was he gonna fight RDA then?", 
        "He's like a Roberto Duran + Motivated BJ Penn offspring. fuck weight classes, the more dangerous the opponent the better he looks win or lose.", 
        "Why not just catch weight at 162 or something?\n\nMaybe now Mcgregor is just totally over cutting and really into steak.", 
        "According to Helwani it was agreed to be a catch weight of 165, but Conor said let him be comfortable and let's do it at 170. ", 
        "What weight is Diaz currently? Doesn't he usually fight welterweight? Why would they need to make it 170 over 165?", 
        "Nate typically fights at light weight, he fought Welterweight for a while, I believe he finally dropped down after Rory manhandled him.\n\nNick is the one who's usually fighting at 170.", 
        "must be tired of the full camp mendes bullshit. ", 
        "He's the man.", 
        "?", 
        "I hope Conor wins and calls out Lawler. Gets up on the mic and says RDA missed his chance to change his bum life, he's already got a win at WW and now he wants Lawler. ", 
        "Is it just a win he wants or the belt?\n\nEdit* he wants the belt, don't fool yourselves ", 
        "This is a very possible outcome, hope this happens at ufc 200.", 
        "There's another person in ww who Conor should stay far far away from and he's the guy who rightfully should get the shot at Lawler regardless of Conor's ambitions. ", 
        "Perfect ", 
        "Holy shit, I read \"bum life\" in Connor's voice in real time... the man has infiltrated my brain... and I don't even think I like him that much.", 
        "I just can't see Lawler giving a shit. I'm sure he'd be happy to take that fight, but the dude has been through so many wars at this point, hell he'd probably be happy to get KOd early instead of a five round marathon. ", 
        "Lawler would light him up something chronic. That is a fight that should not be made. Ever. ", 
        "The image of him verbally attacking Lawler is totally insane. He couldn't, could he?", 
        "> He couldn't, could he?\n\nRelax, Jesus. Might have to stay clear off this sub.", 
        "Nick diaz got in lawers head real bad", 
        "Lawler would fucking destroy him", 
        "He attacked one of the longest unbeaten champions in the history of MMA for about a year and then KO'd him under 20 seconds. I wouldnt put it past him.", 
        "I think he'd be more respectful in his call out of Robbie than we've seen recently.  I get a feeling that McGregor has real respect for guys like Lawler.", 
        "\"guys like Lawler\" what does that mean? I have watched a few Lawler fights, and he seems like a pretty nice guy, but is there something specific that makes you think Conor would have more respect for him over other fighters?", 
        "When Lawler gets KO'd, he doesn't fall down, just his consciousness turns off and the fight response takes over. Then he comes at you even harder. Hard to drop a guy that's already out.", 
        "Goes through a war, breaks his opponent then with his upper lip entirely split screams \"AND STILL!\". \n\n Robbie lawler has ferocity about him that few can match. He also doesn't give a Fuck. Who does that to Melvin Manhoef?! ", 
        "Lawler is old school, been around for a while. The wars he's been through inside the cage prove he's an absolute beast. He doesn't play it safe at all, something Conor criticized Aldo for. Plus he has a terrifying stare down at weigh ins. His eyes just gloss over all black like a great white shark. ", 
        "Googled \"lawler staredown\" and it looks like the shadow of his brow just prevents all light from hitting his eyes.", 
        "Wow it is terrifying \n\n\nhttp://imgur.com/LLRbhGg", 
        "I mean, that's the science behind it but the phenomenon is real. ", 
        "\"Robbie, I am not impressed with your performance\"", 
        "The best part is if he loses, a case for RDA-McGregor at UFC 200 is intact. If he wins, both Lawler and RDA shots are available.\n\nPoor Frankie lol.", 
        "Xanatos gambit\n", 
        "He likes options.", 
        "Great point", 
        "Dana said on sportscenter that Aldo and Edgar turned the fight down, I believe.", 
        "Yeah Dana conveniently left out that Frankie is injured in typical douchebag Dana fashion. ", 
        "Have you got a link? Couldn't find on google, would be be an interesting read/listen/watch", 
        "Edgar is injured, and Aldo hasnt trained since his last fight and wasnt in fighting shape. \n\n", 
        "WTF Aldo? \n\nDid Conor really break him that badly? I didn't expect him to take the fight, but he hasn't trained at all? Poor guy needs to get back up and gain his confidence back.", 
        "His medical suspension just ended and he made a point to say he'd only fight for the belt or Connor, so he's not in fighting shape.", 
        "Dude he got knocked out 2 months ago, he shouldn't have been offered a fight. Not safe for the brain", 
        "Wow. You're right. I completely forgot he was out cold. I don't know why but the fight being so short must have skewed my memory on this.", 
        "Also from what I read his trainer was contacted by Dana white and was asked if Aldo was in fighting shape, his trainer said no.  ", 
        "Can't really blame him, Aldo's dealer is out of growth hormone.", 
        "I'd say Aldo isn't mentally recovered either. Poor guy.", 
        "Who would be, just look at Ronda and she was champion for 2 years. Fedor probably can relate.", 
        "Aldo also really could do with more time after being knocked out like that. There's no shame in him turning it down.", 
        "Aldo [posted on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/josealdojunioroficial/posts/1040805409305550:0_) a month ago that he was training and would fight Conor anytime, anywhere and it doesn't have to be for a belt. Now he turns this down, that's embarrassing.", 
        "Training and training for a fight are totally different. Aldo wasn't going to take the fight on 10 days notice and I can't blame him", 
        "He probably shouldn't have his PR team literally say \"any time, anywhere,\" then.", 
        "Aldo only got cleared for contact training 2 weeks ago after being knocked out. Taking this fight would have been ridiculous.", 
        "aldo was on medical suspension and only got off like 10 days ago for full contact training \n\n", 
        "Then he shouldn't go around calling people out.", 
        "He can type in English but can't speak it?  More than likely one of his PR people type that up.  His translator buddy did a bad job of translating his words right after his loss, so I wouldn't be shocked if they edited his stuff for Facebook/Instagram also.  ", 
        "I guarantee Aldo didn't type that lol", 
        "Turned it down because he is a pussy. ", 
        "ouch.  Great link of evidence.  That is condemning.  ", 
        "Typing it on Facebook knowing full well there's a 99% chance he won't be offered a fight...then that 1% chance comes up and he looks like a mug.", 
        "Edgar is injured.", 
        "get less injured", 
        "Yeah, I don't see Edgar turning down that fight in 100 years unless he's injured", 
        "He missed this call. No excuses.", 
        "Mixed stories now. I'm hearing that he turned down the fight, that he's injured, and now that he missed the call. Wonder which is accurate ", 
        "No matter the reason...", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Ah okay thank for clarifying dude, I really appreciate it my man. Now I know what you meant by missed the call, you mean he just wasn't ready to accept the role due to injuries that he's recovering from. \n\n\nHonestly this Nate Diaz fight is probably the best alternative I could have asked for. I don't think Cerrone would have faired well because McGregor would just work the body since Cowboy has said that is he major weak spot. As expected though, Cowboy will probably fight in the upcoming weeks anyway", 
        "He is injured. It is not intentional.", 
        "*Frankie is the one running now*", 
        "He isn't running, he is injured, but MMA fans think he is running because they are on Dana's dick.", 
        "*Italics indicate sarcasm*", 
        "I thought that was /s", 
        "Different strokes for different folks I suppose. Anytime I see italics or /s it's sarcasm.", 
        "neither was RDA's. But that's the game.", 
        "Yet they still are allowed to say they were injured, so they have valid excuses.", 
        "Irrelevant.", 
        "Very relevant.", 
        "a torn groin is about the best reason to not being able to accept this fight...", 
        "That's the game.", 
        "I feel like this might be one of those instances where we find out from Frankie in a couple days that he either wasn't called or was rejected by the UFC.  Which is fine by me.  I fucking love Frankie, but I am HYPED for the shit talk that Conor vs Nate is bound to generate!\n\nI could be wrong though, but I know in the past the UFC has said that they contacted fighters for fights (like they said they did with Miocic when Jones wanted to step in) and then the fighters turned up later on social media and said they didn't get a call.", 
        "So did Aldo. Crazy that he didn't jump at the opportunity. I honestly don't think he will ever get it again. And his legacy will forever have that 10 second KO on it. ", 
        "I'd say a torn groin muscle is more a reason than an excuse.  ", 
        "Like his torn groin. Not really an excuse so much as a reality. ", 
        "I agree. If Frankie was ready he would've had the nod.", 
        "Yup. No red panties for Frankie.", 
        "People gotta crow bar that joke in every chance they get. ", 
        "Frankie said no. I thought he said he'd be ready???", 
        "Dirty white weekday panties for him.", 
        "Highly doubt McGregor was making 145 in 12 days regardless.", 
        "Frankie could make 155.", 
        "Frankie's injured", 
        "But then it's not for a belt and why would Frankie take that", 
        "$$$", 
        "This is going to be amazing.", 
        "stockton motherfucker", 
        "209 whut", 
        "I just want one damn press conference stare down with the two of them. Nate screams Stockton motherfucker in Conor's face, Conor responds with Dublin motherfucker, and that's the last shot of the new promo video. Fuck I'm hyped.", 
        "What does that mean? I know Nate said it to Robbie way back when but what does it actually mean?", 
        "It means fuck you if you don't know what it means!!!......all day!", 
        "Alright.", 
        "Stockton is where Nate and Nick Diaz are from. They shout it like they're representing their city", 
        "Oh I see, thank you, I feel like I should've known that. They are a crazy couple of guys, excellent shit talkers, or at least Nate is, I don't know much about Nick.", 
        "Its the equivalent of white trash yelling \"World Star\" on their fight video's.  \"Dey Repra-sentin yo\".", 
        "Nicks a even bigger shit talker, seems more confident that Nate IMO in his shit talking abilities. Nates not the best at it outta the octagon, but hes hilarious in it", 
        "McGregor is insane... I love it", 
        "I hate it, I wanted interim gold. Can't defend your title? Show must go on. ", 
        "Insane for taking a fight where he doesnt have to cut weight against someone who is likely doing the same... Conor fans are cute.\n\nStill, huge props to him. He is a true champion for not giving a fuck and taking any fight.", 
        "Why is McGregor insane but not Nate Diaz?  I'd say what he's doing is much crazier and riskier than what McGregor is doing.", 
        "Yeah whether you like him or not you have to respect him in this. ", 
        "Yea its bc diaz doesn't have time to cut", 
        "He's quickly becoming the best champion for the fans since Penn", 
        "is that heavier or lighter than he usually fights? i'm here from r/all", 
        "Heavier. He has only fought at 145 in the UFC, although before he signed for them he had mostly fought at 155, which seems to be his natural weight class. He cut a LOT of weight to get to 145, was always super gaunt at weigh-ins.", 
        "Thanks. Yea i remember the weigh-ins from his last fight he looked like a straight crazy person", 
        "It's like he said while taking a nap, /opens one eye \"They're all the same to me.\" /closes eye", 
        "He always says, \"Name the date and the weight and I'll be there to fight anyone.\"", 
        "\"They're all the same.\"", 
        "Serious question. Is McGregor an ancient celtic God walking and fighting among us? ", 
        "No fucking weight cuts for either of them.  Fuck it let's just fight where we're both at and be strong instead of hurting ourselves.\n\nSay what you want about Conor but that guy is game.\n\nIf he wins I think he's fighting Lawler at 170 for UFC 200.", 
        "IMO, (don't get all upset everybody) Conor would fuckin mop the floor with Robbie. Robbie is wobbled in every single fight he's been in, that chin is gonna fail when a 170 McGregor hits him I think. Robbie is best when he's getting beat and its do or die time (5th round), but Conor wouldn't let it go that long. \n\nLike Schaub said, (wow, I'm agreeing with him for once) RDA is a harder fight purely because of the style difference. ", 
        "I think Conor thinks the same.  However, if Wonderboy were the champ at 170, I don't think you'd be hearing him talking about moving up.\n\nI think Robbie is sort of an exception for Conor at 170.  If he fought Wonderboy or Condit I think he'd be in bad trouble.", 
        "At 170, I'd rather see McGregor fight Condit.", 
        "I wonder how Wonderboy would fare against Conor at 170.", 
        "I think he'd fuck Conor up to be honest.  If the 170 lb champ was Wonderboy instead of Lawler I don't think Conor's as eager to move up there.\n\nI think he figures Lawler is a brawler and he can put it on his chin but Wonderboy can dance and play his distance games with even better kicks and more length.", 
        "Couldn't agree more. Thompson is a different animal. 6ft and walks around at 200+... Even if Conor wins at 170, I still don't think he deserves a shot at Lawler before Thompson. Either way, Conor should stay out of any cage that Thompson is standing inside of...", 
        "You sure Wonderboy walks around at 200+ pounds? Seems a bit much, I would have thought more like 190. But agree, Thompson would be a very bad matchup for Conor. ", 
        "Yeah, was listening to an interview with him. He talked about how he screwed up in the Matt brown fight and got up to 210. He manages the cuts much better now. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "RDA's gone runnin", 
        "RDA might not be ready by then.  If he fucked his foot up bad and it has to be immobilized for > 4 weeks it's really hard to rehab your feet and Achilles in that space of time.\n\nHe might only be able to just start training hard in about 4 months if it's worst case scenario for a foot break.", 
        "Someone said Nate is just under 190lbs. Don't know if it's true or not. ", 
        "Lawler would fucking donkey Kong McGregor ", 
        "That's what they said about Aldo and RDA as well.", 
        "Like everyone else that was suppose to beat him?", 
        "Idunno man lol, i mean lawler is a standup fighter, conors standup is better than his so in that regard... But then again, lawler hits 200 harder than any ww he has trained with so idk.. It all comes down to how hard conor hits at ww and how he can get hit before crumbling. I think any true ww should grab a hold of conor, either throw him on his head or clinch and outmuscle and beat the life out of him in the clinch. But we will have to wait and see i guess which makes it all so much more fun.", 
        "I do agree,  it's mma so it's not wise to say any top level guy will always lose to another top level guy. ", 
        "Exactly.. Anything can happen in there. Thats what makes is all so much fun lol.", 
        "Just like Aldo before him or course.", 
        "Table flip emoji him across the octagon ", 
        "Right. Talk about movement all you want,  but Lawler would be significantly heavier on fight night,  and is a machine. ", 
        "Disagree entirely.  RDA is a way worse match up for McGregor than Robbie is IMO.", 
        "I'm way more hyped for the potential Lawler / McGregor fight than I was for McGregor / Aldo", 
        "And what if he does?  Conor makes several millions of dollars and that loss isn't even a loss really.\n\nWho's going to shit on a guy for jumping 2 weight classes just to get a piece of the champ at the end of the day?\n\nYou never really lose with balls that big.", 
        "I'm saying it's not a good fight to set up regardless of the money,  it would not be competitive,  although it would be fun to watch. Generally it's bad for your brand to get your shit handed to you by a crazy person. \nJust ask Jose Aldo. ", 
        "wtf, lawler is slow and only relys on haymakers and lost to condit in the eyes of fans, he has no movment and gasses every fight, stop acting like hes good, hes a fraud", 
        "Such a ridiculous statement. Shame on you. ", 
        "What if those wars Robbie's been through have been eroding his previously granite chin, and Conor puts his power square on the button?\n\nI think Conor figures he's got a punchers chance since Robbie's going to want to bang and McGregor thinks he can lights out anybody if he can land the perfect counter shot.\n\nI'd pay money to see that fight.", 
        "They would have to go to Texas just to get it sanctioned.\n\nThat would be brutal to watch but I would enjoy it", 
        "Or he dies never to fight again ", 
        "I think it's obvious at this point Conor is like a guy that walks into a Casino with a $100 chip and he's going to let it ride until he either loses or wins the fucking Casino.\n\n", 
        "And that's what has drawn me to like him. I could do without all the shit talking stuff, but I understand it's a tactic and a personality he developed. The fact that he's a true fighter and always down to test himself and his insane confidence draws me in every time to see what will happen. Win or lose Conor is a ballsy guy and that's paid off for him big time", 
        "That's why McGregor wants to move up. It's a win win for him. But notice how McGregor has faced only 1 wrestler in his entire UFC career.  McGregor honestly could beat Lawler because McGregor's an amazing striker but styles make fights, and he should avoid Khabib at all costs.", 
        "I don't think he has to worry about him for another few years so Khabib isn't injured  ", 
        "Oh god gtfo with this lame ass McGregor won't fight wrestlers crap. What the hell else does he have to do to show he's down to fight anyone? Havent 4/8 opponents have pulled out of their fights with him? (albeit mostly for good reasons) I don't see why this is still a common topic. What do you want him to do? Compete in adcc or something?", 
        "Don't get mad at the truth.  You're acting like I'm asking for a kidney from the guy. \"What do you want him to do? Compete in adcc or something?\" Lol what?  How do you make that strange leap?  I simply want him to fight a wrestler.  What's confusing about that? Most fighters in the UFC on their way to a title get different style matchups to see how they fare, but McGregors faced striker after striker after striker after striker, and the one wrestler he faces, he loses the first round against.  The only round McGregors lost in the UFC is against a wrestler.  I don't think that's a coincidence.  Styles make fights.", 
        "Do you still think he shouldn't fight a wrestler?  Lol.  He was exposed as the mediocre grappler he is.  THAT'S why I wanted to see him fight a wrestler.", 
        "I want to see how he fares against a good grappler.  McGregor was exposed last night by Nate Diaz.  Diaz submitted him.  ", 
        "I'm saying it's not a good fight to set up regardless of the money,  it would not be competitive,  although it would be fun to watch. Generally it's bad for your brand to get your shit handed to you by a crazy person. \nJust ask Jose Aldo. ", 
        "I think the casual fans would shit all over Mcgregor if he lost to Robbie. I don't think they have the same understanding as us about cutting weight. They probably don't get that jumping two weight classes is a big deal.", 
        ">Who's going to shit on a guy for jumping 2 weight classes just to get a piece of the champ at the end of the day?\n\nHe's only really going 1 weight class up from where he should be. His natural weight class is 155, he almost had to kill himself to fight 145. Lawler is only 2 inches taller with no reach advantage. ", 
        "> And what if he does? \n\nBelieve it or not, fights do put mileage on a fighter.  There are reasons fighter careers are generally pretty short.\n\nThere are plenty of fighters who have been KTFO'd very hard and never really come back to their former strength.", 
        "That's what people said about bj penn. ", 
        "Imagine if Conor won that? The amount of money he would then be worth would be fuckin ridiculous! ", 
        "Except win or lose I don't think he should be taking any more Robbie Lawler punches... I've heard it's not good for your uh, head", 
        "It's like when Wanderlei took the Cro Cop kick to the head. He never seemed the same after that.", 
        "Lawler P4P most frightening in my book.", 
        "Round 5 Lawler is like poking a shark with a steak spear made out of your arms.", 
        "Palhares is scarier. Fuck it, Lawler hits me, I either die or don't remember it. Palhares gets me, I'm never going to walk properly again.", 
        "Paul Harris is scary retard strong and thinks people's knees are full of chocolate. Bad combination.", 
        "Cadbury Knees, brought to you by the makers of High Altitude Cain, and Reebok gear", 
        "Upvote for Paul Harris", 
        "That and Lawler is a real 170er. Like cuts down to make 170. At that weight I think the natural size discrepancy is too much. This is just to get both fighters at their peak for such a late switch up. I'm intrigued by this fight.", 
        "hes two inches taller and they have an equal reach. The size discrepancy is minimal. I know MMA is a different beast but Tyson was Always the smaller man. An MMA example would be Fedor or Couture. Both always the smaller men. The size difference is over played. Conor could bulk a bit and be fine at 170.", 
        "Think how savage that fight would be though.  More so the fight rather than the build up.  ", 
        "Lawler used to be a real 185er for fuck sakes.", 
        "Connor is a bad matchup for Robbie stylistically. ", 
        "I keep doubting Robbie.. I thought Rory was a similar bad matchup but the guy just keeps winning.  I'll be pulling for Conor if that fight happens but I don't think I'll ever doubt Robbie again. ", 
        "Pretty sure Schaub said he thinks Conor would beat Lawler and that RDA is the harder fight for him, but he also just named his baby Tiger so take that as you will", 
        "You've gotta be honeydicking me.\n", 
        "Schaub isn't someone's who's opinion you should be giving any thought.", 
        "Wow what an idiot. ", 
        "I knew a kid named Tiger in HS.  His dad was an NFL player.  The kid won two HW state wrestling championships and was a an allstate football player who played in college.  Tiger as a name for athletes has a pretty decent track record.  ", 
        "I prefer Tigre.", 
        "I truly love mcgregor for not giving a shit and fighting at want ever weight it is. All respect to him. Fighters should take notice and get out of their comfort zone and try out different weight classes.", 
        "If fighting was your livelihood I doubt you'd be so matter of fact. ", 
        "Nate has done it too, but most people shit on him for losing to Rory and DHK", 
        "Rumble would like a word with you. ", 
        "Oh fuck. I forgot about him. ", 
        "probably because he knocked you the fuck out.", 
        "He's going to make them.  If you don't hop around divisions like him now you're second-class.  Think about it.  If one guy is taking all comers in 3 divisions and you're taking \"the guys that make sense\" in one, he's going to outshine you by a mile.\n\n", 
        "holy holm is a huge step in that direction over ronda", 
        "I'm not too sure about that, no one really hopped on the band wagon when BJ was doing it. ", 
        "bj has a die hard following but he never had the impact Conor does now.  also bj never had entire divisions call him out.", 
        "Still don't think it's going to become a trend. ", 
        "Different era I think.  BJ wasn't making multiple millions per fight.  Other champs have to be thinking \"shit I'll fight another champ for millions....\"", 
        "This kinda excites me, once fighters take notice, there should be some more interesting matchmaking in the future!", 
        "Nah, BJ Penn did that 10 years ago and now everybody shits on him for not fighting at Lightweight more. Damned if you do, damned if you don't.\n", 
        "Kinda like BJ?", 
        "In fairness, it's easier to jump up 2 weight classes when it only takes 15 pounds. A light heavy would need to gain about 50 pounds to compete as a heavy.", 
        "What? Most light heavy's walk around at like 220 at least, they'd only have to gain 10-20 lbs to compete at heavy. ", 
        "He's already outshining everybody. He truly wants to go down as the GOAT and he's doing everything in his power to do it. The only thing holding him back are flakey opponents.", 
        "What do you mean by flaky? ", 
        "Repeatedly backing out.", 
        "Jose backed out because of a possible rib injury, and RDA's foot looks like a balloon right now. I don't think that's flakey, I think that's just the nature of the fight game. Injuries happen and it sucks.", 
        "they chickened out, pretty easy to have little juanito hit your foot with a stick.", 
        "That's what I say, too. He pulled a Greg Allman!", 
        " Andy Ogle was replaced by Max Holloway, Cole Miller was replaced by Diego Brandao, Mendes replaced Aldo, Nate replaces RDA. \n\nThats 4 out of 7 UFC fights", 
        "Ah I'm a jamoke.", 
        "We still have to see how he handles losing at this level, which is gonna happen eventually.\n\nAnd it's probably gonna be by KO when it happens, with his endurance and ability to have superhuman fitness.", 
        "Mehhh.... He's had a great run, sure, but he'll get knocked the fuck out once, and choked out once, and then everyone will realise he's just a fighter.", 
        "He is just a fighter. He is, however, one of the best fighters in the game currently.", 
        "Seriously. Nobody can ever say he didn't man up. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Oh. Ok. How so? ", 
        "theyre at the same weight class, so its nothing that special. theyre just skipping the weight cut process", 
        "For real. I'm a huge Diaz fan and I have a ton of respect for how McGregor has chosen to get beaten mercilessly for my entertainment.", 
        "He's fighting a guy who presents no danger standing, on late notice, and he doesn't have to cut weight. I'd say he got a pretty sweet deal.", 
        "It's just another hurdle on his quest. I mean he prepped so much just for this and jus to throw it away because it's not the right guy? I'd still fight. It's just if he lost... haha. I don't see him losing though.", 
        "Opening himself up to the possibility of being Stockton Slapped on short notice takes balls forsure", 
        "Stockton. A bit harder place than Sweden haha. ", 
        "I'm bout to Stockton slap myself", 
        "And yet, people still do. All the time.", 
        "I wonder what the odds will be like. I think McGregor finishes him in 2 rounds. Hope Nate does well though.", 
        "Curious to see the odds too.  I am guessing Conor will be favored but I have Nate.   His boxing and length will be the difference.", 
        "I hate that this might be true :(.  But, if Josh Thompson finishes Nate with kicks and punches. . .  Writing may be on the wall.\n\nEither way, Diaz almost always brings entertaining fights and so does McGregor.  Excited for this.", 
        "Given that McGregor was at -150 vs. Dos Anjos, I would guess he opens somewhere around -250", 
        "The odds came out right around the time you posted this... They started out at about 75% to 79% win chance for McGregor.\n\nSo currently McGregor is favored over Nate almost exactly like Holly is favored over Miesha.", 
        "Hard to have KO power fighting someone who can be 30 lbs heavier than his last fight", 
        "some seriously uninformed fans if they they think that weight difference wont make a difference. if they stand and trade conner doesnt stand a chance imo. nate has solid hands for a ufc fighter. mcgregor better have a solid gameplan. or i can see him getting ronda'd", 
        "If Nate is at 170 will he be in shape? :/", 
        "Absolutely because he will not have to cut a lot and be healthy and at full cardio when he fights. ", 
        "This fight might be harder than Chad. Is there a chance of 209 winning?", 
        "Well there will be a lot of boxing and Conor is a pretty slick counter puncher. Diaz has an obvious advantage on the ground but Nate is not one to lay and pray. It is gonna be an eventful fight", 
        "Hell yeah!", 
        "I think I will take Conor by TKO in the third or fourth ", 
        "He walks around pretty big when he doesn't  have a fight scheduled. Not in a bad way, just more muscular.", 
        "Is he ever not in shape? The Diaz brothers are not known for showing up out of shape", 
        "0% chance he can pass a drug test on 2 weeks notice", 
        "He'll drop it by mistake xD", 
        "You seriously think the UFC didn't independently test him before they announced the fight?", 
        "Not with Nick training the shit out of him for the next 10 days. He will be straight.", 
        "Nick once said he can pass a test in 8 days. Granted he's had a couple misses, but with 12 days and the somewhat relaxed regulations he should be good unless they decide to test him immediately.", 
        "What do you mean by somewhat relaxed regulations? ", 
        "They raised the allowable level on pot. ", 
        "If I recall correctly the amount of THC to fail was reduced significantly, but I can't remember if that was just one commission or all of them.", 
        "With the new testing I don't see why not.  Basically just makes sure you're not blazed on fight night.", 
        "85% chance he can pass then.", 
        "This is a Diaz, that's like a 65%. Remember that time Nick fought Silva high as balls?", 
        "The only fight anyone can possibly say Nick Diaz was high during the fight for is Gomi. ", 
        "He fought Gomi in Japan high as hell, too. They vacated his win.", 
        "The Diaz bros run marathons for fun. He'll be in shape.", 
        "I think he means the Devils lettuce kinda drugs ", 
        "No, they do Ironmans ", 
        "Right, but after his last win has he been doing anything like this?", 
        "Like he was against RDA? :/", 
        "Honestly i'd be surprised if this one went more than a round. Nate is not the type of guy to back down and conor has serious KO power.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Neither was Aldo...", 
        "You're thinking of Nick.", 
        "Neither had Aldo", 
        "RDA did a number on him and couldn't finish the job. Nate is a tough sob", 
        "He got TKO'd.", 
        "Josh Thompson says hi.", 
        "Yeah, I'm pretty excited.  On the other hand, Conor's been KOing featherweights, so a guy who's fighting at 170 is gonna have a bit more of a chin.  That said, I still do agree Conor's gonna knock him out, unless Diaz can get it to the ground.  Then I think there's a pretty strong chance Conor gets choked because Nate's bjj is sick.", 
        "The Diaz brothers almost never get finished, though.", 
        "You're right but Josh Thompson finished Nate Diaz, I think mcgregor probably can too. ", 
        "Anythings possible, but Josh won by head kick and punches.\n\nIt took a lot...", 
        "Neither did Aldo", 
        "Aldo just never lost. The Diaz brothers have had some embarrassing losses, but they're almost all by decision (I think Josh Thomson is the only in one in the last five or ten years)", 
        "While that's true, I don't think that's a totally fair comparison. Aldo didn't get finished much because he steamrolled guys for so long. The Diaz brothers occasionally steamroll as well, but in most fights they withstand a pretty good beating, win or lose.", 
        "The Diaz's brothers can take punches though.  They can really roll and slip and take just enough heat off them not to be game over and they have chins.\n\nThey've kind of made a career out of abusing guys with more power than them.  ", 
        "Aldo could really take a punch too. Thing is McGregor makes them take shots coming in and that makes the impact so much greater.", 
        "Yeah but its going to be like when nate faced dos anjos.. Dos anjos was way quicker, nate was is terrible shape, missed weight and everything. He got outstruck and outlanded like a motherfucker. But hes tough as shit. Still same thing is going to happen eventhough he might be in better shape. cuz conor's strikes has more effect than dos anjos i feel, and he is faster, has better stand up. So nate can slip away but hes going to get outworked on his feet. If hes smart he takes conor down and submit him. His standup is slow as shit.", 
        "Doesn't Nate have a sizable reach advantage as well?", 
        "Except Nate has lost 3 out of 5 last fights. ", 
        "Your last sentence there sums it up so nicely. You said what I think and I didn't even know it.", 
        "True? But I mean, I would have also said by normal logic that there was zero way conor could KO aldo with the first punch. Or even in the first round. Conor's power is a little confusing. His hands / stand up game is top level. And I think Diaz fighting for a higher weight class doesn't really matter because he's really not bigger than conor to begin with. It is really crazy that this is at 170 though...", 
        "I just can't see a Diaz on the canvas in Round 1.  I can't do it.", 
        "I can't see a diaz backing off from getting hard or getting outstruck on another level. I think it's reasonable to say conor has some of the best hands in the UFC. Like, they're famous for not going down, but I think one of the reasons they're doing this fight is because it is somewhat safe for conor. I don't ever see conor losing, and I see this as, unfortunately for nate, just a showcase of conor's striking skills.", 
        "If it was Nick then absolutely not, but Nate's been put down before.", 
        "Once... and it was a head kick. Nate's chin and toughness is insane. He went 3 rounds with RDA who beat the living shit out of him but still couldn't finish him. I find it difficult to see conor even finishing him. I think he definitely can but I see it going 5 rounds before I see that happening tbh", 
        "Yeah, and by josh thomson who isn't really known as a big finisher. Nate is solid and with a similar style, but he isn't nick. If he runs into that left hand he's getting finished.", 
        "Yeah, Nick's chin is more solid than Nate's, people seem to conflate the two of them though.", 
        "Well, we couldn't see Aldo hitting the canvas in Round 1 either", 
        "Yeah, they lose decisions, but they're usually right in there the whole fight. No one really fucks them up in a bad way.", 
        "Nate is also a southpaw himself. That's going to change things interestingly. And Conor has shown himself to be hittable too.\n\nI'd personally love to see Diaz pull off the upset, and believe he can do it, but I'm questionable about anyone surviving Conor's power. I feel like Diaz can win this though if he makes it to the championship rounds and his cardio is at its usual. I think Conor is going to feel the effects of putting on the weight he has and Diaz can certainly rock Conor, box him up, or even out-point him in the later rounds. Man this is going to be a good fight.", 
        "Absolutely can't stand the Diaz brothers", 
        "Connor was walking around at about 175 pounds while fighting at 145. I'm sure he'll be fine.", 
        "Unless Conor's JJ game is a million times better and on point he better not be taken down.", 
        "Conor's also shown he's got a chin of his own.\n\nI do think the cardio issue of Conor's bulk could be a factor but he's still shredded.  Also, Nate isn't full camp so I think that sort of evens out.\n\nI feel like most likely it turns out like Max Holloway.  Nate fights him tough but gets beat up for a clear decision.", 
        "Would expect his cardio to be better, honestly. Just because he will have energy from eating more, instead of trying to make weight, which does a number on the body", 
        "I don't get this. Fighting at your natural weight is bad for your stamina. Fighting after cutting a shitload of weight is also bad for your stamina? \n\nNah man, weight cutting drains you more than eating a juicy steak the night before the fight. \n\nSource: Uh, I'm an UFC expert! ", 
        "So the only logical thing to do as a fighter is gain a shit ton of weight to have perfect stamina. \n\n\"He's looking amazing Joe. Like a beach ball with legs.\"\n\n\"He's obese, Mike.  His stamina is CARRAYZEEY\"", 
        "> I don't get this. Fighting at your natural weight is bad for your stamina. Fighting after cutting a shitload of weight is also bad for your stamina?\n\nWhile I'm not a fighter, I can speak to this. I cut a little over 15 pounds over the course of 6 or 8 months (didn't have a real incentive to go super fast) and found myself running faster and easier, even with the same amount of training. If you cut super quick, you're also going to be losing a fair amount of muscle, which will also make you slower and have less stamina. It's not that fighting at your natural weight is bad for your stamina, it's that fighting at 10 lbs. less is better for it.", 
        "I think you misunderstand what a fighter does to cut. I havent had to cut  for a cage fight but I have wrestled since I was 6. Fighters arent just eating a calorie deficit, they are dehydrating themselves to nearly fatal levels. You ever feel like if you don't eat or drink very soon you are going to pass out? Imagine that for a week or more, your brain gets hazy and legs are shaky and forget being a pound off that morning, now you're looking at sprinting in sweats or a sauna suit praying that you can get it off in time.", 
        "Both fighters manned up. Nate probably walks around at a similar weight to Conor.", 
        "manned up? Nate is lucky as fuck to get this fight..has nothing to do ab out manning up at this point... it's about that huge pay day they all want by facing mcgregor..\n\nand no way diaz wins this..sad really..not a good fight..", 
        "Diaz was sick and injured when he fought RDA and RDA could not finish him. He wiped the floor with Johnson. I think he has a better chance than you give him credit for.", 
        "sick and injured? save it bro..don't make excuses.he has no ways to win this..is he going to ko conor? no..is he going to sub conor,no. He won't get conor down, he doesn't even go for many takedowns..conor will be bigger, stronger, faster. More in shape, more prepared.. etc etc..This is easy money. All diaz did was jab and pot shot johnson, no ko power..he basically just frustrated him. Shit won't work on mcmac.\n\nI'm pretty fucking bummed out... ", 
        "No KO power? Do you know we are talking about a Diaz? Theyre not knockout artists, their volume as fuck TKO fighters. Both are also dangerous off their back offensive BJJ grapplers. Im not saying Diaz is gonna win, but i can already picture Mcgregors head in a triangle and Diazs fingers in the air. ", 
        "Nate refused to go below 165, so I kinda doubt he's walking around the same as Conor, who was planning to hit 155 in a week and a half. ", 
        "I'm sure the $$$ helped Nate in manning up, just a little bit.", 
        "Any idea what his purse is ?", 
        "Dont quote me on this im just using my memory, but Conor said something about the Mendes fight that Mendes went from 40/40 to half a mill flat. Sure that was a title fight and this isnt, but im sure UFC has upped the pay and possibly added ppv points. It might be Diazs biggest payday to date. ", 
        "Hell motherfucking yeah! Hope he gets paid big time from this fight. I think Nate will lose but I'm WAYYYY more excited about this fight now than before. ", 
        "Agreed. I actually like this matchup better. Also I think Nate would beat RDA in a rematch.", 
        "Yeah you are right. Nate admitted that he was holding out on fighting in protest of him not getting a payday opponent when lesser fighters were getting better pay. The Diazes bring in eyeballs. And Diaz was not finished by RDA and was fighting injured and just recently made a clinic on Johnson. This fight is compelling. ", 
        "Goddamn what he did to Johnson was filthy. Performance of the year for me, he outclassed a rising star in his peak. ", 
        "Didn't mean to discredit Nate. I'm a Nate fan. But, Conor is basically moving up 2 weight classes. ", 
        "Conor has more fights at 155 than he does at 145.", 
        "They both just basically agreed not to cut weight. That's all. Conor isn't actually moving up to 170 or fighting someone who fights at 170 (normally). They both probably weight right near 170 right now.\n\np.s. This is what the new ONE weight classes are going to look like.", 
        "Both are pretty natural lightweights that won't be cutting much. Conor almost killed himself everytime he fought FW. ", 
        "Yeah it's nuts looking at some of the photos of him at the weigh-ins. He honestly looked like a crackhead...", 
        "seriously i don't say it too often, but conor starts to look scary/small/malnutritioned when he cuts hard. \n\ni'm happy to see these guys fight closer to weights they walk around at. \n\nnot a big fan of all this weight cutting then rehydrating bullshit. ", 
        "Couldn't agree more.  Someone is gonna die from it.", 
        "Yeah his face literally look 30 years older weigh-in FW", 
        "I may be wrong, but isn't that pretty bad for the kidneys? ", 
        "It's fucking terrible, look at what happened to Hendricks in his weightcutt against Woodley.", 
        "It'll be nice to see fighters going at it close to their walking around weight.  ", 
        "Just wonder if it will impact Conor.. obviously more power .. but slower?", 
        "But timing beats speed bro!", 
        "he will be just as fast. The more power / slower thing is from guys overly bulking up for a long time. He is just fighting at his natural weight so we might see him a little faster since he is not dehydrated. This should be the best McGregor we've seen.  ", 
        "that's what I'm hoping for. Lets see them at peak fitness levels not straining their organs with dehydration. \n\nthey'll still be training just as hard. \n\nsometimes i see weigh ins (like look at [barao vs faber](http://www3.cdn.sherdog.com/_images/pictures/20140131021638_5D3_9789.JPG)) and I'm just like wat the fuck", 
        "He looks way scarier now...", 
        "Serious question,why don't more fighters fight at their natural walking weight? ", 
        "it's all about the power to weight ratio.", 
        "Because they would be facing someone >20lbs heavier than they are on fight night, which is a pretty big fucking deal.", 
        "I think he meant having nobody cut weight at all, then everyone would be at their natural weight.  The only one I can think of who fights/fought at pretty close to their natural weight is Frankie Edgar, minus the heavyweights of course.  When FE fought Bendo, it looked like a kid fighting a grown man.  ", 
        "I don't understand why they don't just ban dehydration and make everyone fight at their natural weight. It doesn't change anything, competition is still equal, just no weight draining.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/zssBNLn.jpg", 
        "Conor wins by shovel.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/JLjsuBu.png", 
        "he could have easily held out for a fight at 155 and gotten an opponent weakened by a late weight cut.\n\nInstead he's personally levelling the playing field, fighting two classes higher than his last fight.", 
        "Except he isn't really leveling the playing field.  McGregor now doesn't have to cut weight and will be healthier on fight day against a guy who's very similar in size.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm saying in this particular fight, McGregor not cutting weight will help him because he's facing a guy who's basically the same size as him.  I'm not saying he should be fighting at 170 against guys who are cutting from 210.  I'm saying against DIAZ SPECIFICALLY, it's better for him because he's the same size as Diaz and won't have to drain his body in the leadup to the fight.  It's an even playing field here.  It's not like Diaz somehow has the advantage because it's at 170.", 
        "Yup. Jon Jones refused the Chael Sonnen fight because he was a wrestler, meanwhile Conor is going up 2 weight classes against a dangerous opponent and just said 'fuck it, make it easier for Nate, I'm beating him either way'.\n\nI had RDA over McGregor, but god damn if that man doesn't have the biggest balls in the UFC.", 
        "It also makes a loss less damaging. The UFC can spin it as a WW loss, and he can still challenge for the 155 belt. ", 
        "Which if you look at it is exactly how it should be. Both fighters are coming in at around 170 naturally without cutting. So no advantage to either in terms of size advantage. Previously conor cut tons of weight so he had a huge advantage come fight time. Its strange to think of conor as the hero in this situation. He is merely finally fighting at a similar weight as his opponent. But again, gets the advantage of them having a shorter fight camp. I doubt that matters much for a diaz brother though. Should be a fun fight!", 
        "Yep, gotta respect the guy for that move. That says a lot, IMO.", 
        "The thing is Conor is a natural LW, and the cut to 45 is fucking brutal on him. His own coach said he never wants to see Conor cut that much weight again. Conor probably walks around 175-180 as does Nate. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You do know Robbie and Rory are Welterweights not Lightweights right?", 
        "It also lets *himself* not have to make 155. At 2 weeks out, he still hasn't done  the worst part of weight cutting, which is the dehydration to lose water weight. Against someone as lanky as Diaz, Conor would happily fight up in weight to avoid this. Steak-fed, full energy mystic mac is going to be scary", 
        "a more buffed conor results in less endurance and movement, and tbh movement is something conor is known for which nate always been good at. Nate can fight 5 rounds for sure but will connor do 5 good rounds at 170?? hmmm?", 
        "You have it wrong.  He doesn't have to cut weight to get there.  That means he's not losing endurance to do the weight cut.  It's highly possible we'll see the best Conor yet.", 
        "Im not talking about weight cut, there is a reason why the smallest guy at fly usually are the quickest one right? 145 on weigh-in might be the best conor out there cus of his quickness, understand my point? What make you think his endurance is same at 170 as it was on 145? \nOfc you lose endurance when you gain musclesmass/weight, his muscles need to tax more oxygen, there is also a reason why marathon runners are skinny af", 
        "Your idea is basically correct, but bulking up and cutting have different effects depending on what a guy's \"natural\" weight is.  So, a guy who naturally walks around at about 170 is going to see his performance suffer a lot more from a cut to 145 in comparison to the hit he takes on his cardio by fighting at 170.  That said, I don't know exactly what Conor's \"walking around weight\" is, but I'm pretty sure it's much closer to 170 than to 145.    ", 
        "After fighters cut weight for the weigh-in, they immediately start rehydrating and gain most of that water weight back.  On fight day, they weigh most of what they \"lost.\"  The difference is, by dehydrating and not eating well for the days leading up to weigh-in, their bodies are short on some of the reserves of energy they'd normally have.\n\nThe point I'm making is the Conor you saw in the cage vs Aldo or Mendes weighed pretty much what the Conor fighting at 170 will weigh in the cage.  The difference is welterweight Conor won't have to put his body through hell right before the fight.", 
        "It won't be going five rounds.  ", 
        "Ofcourse, he prepared for 5, nate is taking the fight on short notice, the question would be if he can hold out for 5 rounds. Conor has a speed advantage on him, and hes a pressure fighter. And no dont bring michael johnson up, cuz yes hes fast but hes not as good on his feet as conor is. He hops around but still predicts when hes attacking. Conor is going to ease through diaz, and then they're going to either promote the dos anjos fight for ufc 200 or they're going to jump over dos anjos and take the fight to ww vs lawler at 200. There is deff a catch behind why they went with nate instead of cowboy.", 
        "Nate does marathons, I can't remember his cardio ever being in question. ", 
        "Yeah well i dont remember him taking a fight this short before?? Maybe im wrong", 
        "This whole \"Diaz bros do marathons\" thing is getting old. Sure they \"have\" done marathons, but the article your getting this info from is years old. Show me something recent that states they actually still do marathons. I'm a huge Diaz fan myself. I'm just tired of people always saying that.", 
        "less endurance?, please, liver glycogen depletion during a cut is brutal", 
        "Stop with them fancy words will ya", 
        "ok, no sugar in tum-tum no fight good", 
        "This would normally be a perfectly reasonable question, but you're questioning whether Conor can do something or not...which invalidates the question these days.  ", 
        "You're god damn right.", 
        "Haha Mystic Mac. I love it. ", 
        "Conor gave himself that nickname after he started predicting his finishes.  Heh.", 
        "I had no idea. What a better nickname than notorious, which is still a good one. ", 
        "Usually in wrestling, moving up is a bad idea. It should usually be just like that in any sort of pugilism, but only if both combatants are equal in skill. \n\nOf course cutting too much is usually a bad idea, and Connor has *really* been pushing that to the extreme. ", 
        "Well he is not really \"fighting up\" in weight class.  He is basically just having a \"no cut\" fight with a guy who is in the same weight class.", 
        "He's moving up two, isn't he?", 
        "Basically like all of OneFC is doing", 
        "he isnt cutting while the other guy is.\n\nthey cut for a reason.", 
        "He needs to carry his balls in a fucking wheelbarrow", 
        "Not if he empties them in your mom every night though", 
        "[Or in an upside down hoodie...](http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2012/06/18/article-2161294-13ACC6CB000005DC-507_634x351.jpg)", 
        "Sam Cassell style ", 
        "Buster Gonad!\n", 
        "Randy Marsh style! ", 
        "Blatantly stolen from Viz's 'Buster Gonad'.", 
        "Buffalo Soldier", 
        "The quote is fucking amazing lol\n\n>\"Make it 170,\" [Conor] says. \"Tell him to get comfortable.\"", 
        "Damn. Didn't even see that part. Salute. ", 
        "That's seriously the quote of the fucking day lol, can't believe the balls on McGregor. Honestly, the way he's finished every damn fight he's had, and the fact that Diaz is a serious BJJ blackbelt, I wonder if McGregor's brain can even tap. Lets say he slips into a rear naked choke, does McGregors pride and self belief even allow him to tap or does he fight it until he passes out?", 
        "Nah, the tiger on his stomach will just start breathing for him. It's all good bro. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "We're skipping straight over Steak-fed Conor right into Ben and Jerry's / KFC-fed Conor.", 
        "Connor is \"Sneak\" fed. He feeds on the weak minded hiding in the grass.", 
        "he eatin fam. straight potato diet.", 
        "I'm accumulating mass!", 
        " Guinness.....nothing but Guinness. And I'm not talking the pussy American Guinness either. I'm talking full on Irish Guinness. Add fried Crubeens by the gross and he'll be 185 in a hurry....wait...too far...you went too far Conor...fight is only at 170!!! Damn, time to cut weight!", 
        "He's going to have to eat a leprechaun at this point", 
        "Mcgregor 5000", 
        "He's going to be fueled by Guinness and Haggis ", 
        "Johnny Hendricks Conor", 
        "Cormier is his nutritionist now", 
        "Big Mac", 
        "Conor is getting some Popeye's from DC.", 
        "Bitch please, Conor can get his own damn Popeye's.", 
        "better not be cut with Boston Market gravy..", 
        "[it is the go to meal for demon hellspawns](https://media4.giphy.com/media/5RTYS1x35E12g/giphy.gif)", 
        "Supermacs Conor if you want an Irish spin on it", 
        "probably skipping the ribenas and going straight at the shakes", 
        "5oz Bacon and Cheese fed Conor ^TM", 
        "Chicken fillet roll conor?, Cut it in half?, Yea? Sound!!", 
        "Spicy or plain love?", 
        "It's Supermacs popular over there in Ireland? It looks pretty good.", 
        "It's awful awful food, but at 2am after a fistful of pints, it's the ambrosia of the gods - until you wake up seriously regretting what put in your mouth.\n\n", 
        "That's right, blame the food.", 
        "It's fucking disgusting. It's like your jack in the box.", 
        "It started as one place in a small town 36 years ago and has spread nationally. So it would be popular enough like.", 
        "it's no Soup 'R Crackers but does well enough. ", 
        "Not so much in Dublin, more of a Culchie thing...", 
        "Yeah it's pretty popular, especially in cities outside Dublin. Most people only eat it when they're really drunk though.", 
        "So it's Irish Jack in the Box but it looks more like Macdonalds?", 
        "I don't know what Jack in the Box is! It has an association with rural people though. It becomes a place to congregate when pups/clubs close late at night. This is what it gets like during rag week (a poor man's spring break) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iXMBQihDw2w", 
        "For years and years we've all heard about Taco Bell, In 'N Out, Wendies etc.. now the Americans are hearing about Supermac's :D", 
        "Hard to beat a drunken super macs snack box", 
        "Snackbox for the win!", 
        "Nah, pretty easy really. Just need a drunken Hillbilly's snack box. Or a drunken spicy kebab with Chips, Cheese & Curry from an Istanbul. God, now I'm starving, thanks a lot.", 
        "Well alright,I always wondered how other countries like their fast food.", 
        "Shnack box", 
        "S'macs box.", 
        "Very! Supermacs on Eyre Square in Galway City is pretty much a nightclub", 
        "Jesus, how many Galway boys are on here?\n\nI'm here in GMIT pretending to study as we type!", 
        "I'm a GMIT dropout, and an NUIG graduate!!", 
        "Wasn't McGregor outside it S'macs in Galway just the other night actually? ", 
        "with a Pappa Johns inside ", 
        "Ah you've been to club S I see. Were you there for the pole climbing competition of 2012, or sexy Garda night, 2k13?", 
        "Had a front row seat!", 
        "Can't beat Donegal Tuesday of rag week.", 
        "Snack box Conor!", 
        "Chicken rolls and tea", 
        "No crazy weight cuts. No long build up. McG and Diaz would meet in the White Castle parking lot tonight if they could sell tix in time.", 
        "I laughed out loud.  But it's so true. ", 
        "This fight should be marketed in the next few weeks as a \"true roots\" UFC fight where there were no weight classes.", 
        "That's badass.", 
        "Dude, I love that analogy haha", 
        "> No crazy weight cuts. No long build up. McG and Diaz would meet in the White Castle parking lot tonight if they could ~~sell tix in time.~~\n\nftfy", 
        "WHITE CASTLE FRIES ONLY COME IN ONE SIZE", 
        "If Nate win I will fly myself over to America, go to Dana Whites house, and commit suicide with him.", 
        "Surprise motherfucker", 
        "What now?", 
        "GG Smithy RIP in peace together with eggman", 
        "Hey name buddy, None of that now! ", 
        "Nate is 6\"0 - 76\" reach. McGregor is outsized here, don't sleep on Diaz that fast.", 
        "C'mon do it", 
        "Bad times for you my friend ", 
        "have you purchased your ticket yet?", 
        "Yo! Yo! /u/ThySmithy better kill himself or ima whoop his skinny ass", 
        "...", 
        "Have a nice flight", 
        "I suggest Kayak if you wanna save some money on the airfare.", 
        "I appreciate your fan sportsmanship.\n\nI'll buy the plane ticket.  \n[Proof](http://i.imgur.com/GNqfFVO.jpg)", 
        "/u/ThySmithy was never my friend", 
        "Wait until Dana's posthumous autobiography is released: *The Goof, The Bad & The Ugly*\n\n*EDIT: Or *The Goof, The Bad & The Eggly*", 
        "http://i1122.photobucket.com/albums/l528/detroitccw/3f5adf1f-2318-4259-a599-df89e02f1511_zpsc433b902.jpg", 
        "time to deliver", 
        "Honorable sudoku", 
        "take john kavanagh with you", 
        "God, I can't imagine what he'll be like on Twitter after that.", 
        ":(", 
        "HERE WE GO", 
        "Better book the flight now. Don't want Dana going ahead without you.", 
        "well, bye", 
        "Put up or shut up.", 
        "Never have I wanted a Diaz brother to win as badly as I do now", 
        "/u/ThySmithy \n\nNOOOOOOOOOOOOO!\n\nWe will miss you at /r/SC if this happens.", 
        "I was thinking the same thing haha.", 
        "Haha didn't know I was a recognized member there still!", 
        "Bro you have to do it now. It's over bro.", 
        "REMINDME!\n", 
        "OFWHATIREALLYAM", 
        "#CHOO CHOO! ", 
        "RemindMe! 10 days", 
        "RemindMe! 1 day", 
        "**Defaulted to one day.**\n\nI will be messaging you on [**2016-02-25 04:13:56 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2016-02-25 04:13:56 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/47apf5/nate_diaz_gets_the_call_faces_conor_mcgregor_in/d0bkcvu)\n\n[**62 OTHERS CLICKED THIS LINK**](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/47apf5/nate_diaz_gets_the_call_faces_conor_mcgregor_in/d0bkcvu]%0A%0ARemindMe! ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.\n\n^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! d0bkd9r)\n\n_____\n\n|[^([FAQs])](http://www.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^([Custom])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^([Your Reminders])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^([Feedback])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^([Code])](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)\n|-|-|-|-|-|", 
        "It's not your fault, bot. He didn't give you much to work with.", 
        "So, about this....", 
        "But then Dana will look in your eyes and will want to have your babies.", 
        "AAAHAAAAHAHHHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHA", 
        "Still a better love story than twilight. ", 
        "It's an older code, sir, but it checks out.", 
        "sup bro", 
        "Dana White committing Seppuku as egg yolk flows down the blade.", 
        "> ego yolk\n\nFTFY", 
        "excellent", 
        "You mean egg ... white.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "When criticized by fans on twitter, Dana often mocks the criticizers that have under X-amount of followers, or who have the standard \"egg\" profile picture.", 
        "Some haiku about a broken egg being the death of something too soon or before its time", 
        "his head", 
        "He looks like an egg?", 
        "oh lol!  I thought it was a protein consumption joke. This is way better. ", 
        "Not chicken?", 
        "bingo", 
        "HAHAHAHA", 
        "Saved for later. ", 
        "Yikes", 
        "Finally Reddit is becoming the snuff site of my dreams ", 
        "ok", 
        "/r/mma cult suicide time. Dana White is going to goof his pants! ", 
        "The weird looking matching reebok sweatsuits and sneakers make so much more sense now.", 
        "BLOOD FOR THE MMA BLOOD GODS", 
        "You done doofy goofed in your suicide shorts now, kid!", 
        "You done lollipopped the ice cream man and now we all got melt drippin!!!", 
        "Found the deranged kid snatcher", 
        "Pooty dropped tha truck off the belt with a pitbull eye on a 45 in this bitch!!", 
        "It'll be so weird to hear Bruce buffer say,\"He is the current UFC featherweight champion of the world...\" during a welterweight fight.", 
        "Has science gone too far?  ", 
        "Sucks for Holly. First champ to ever be featured under another non title fight. Devalues the fuck out of that belt in my opinion.", 
        "I think considering the circumstances it's fine", 
        "You just blew my mind", 
        "Yea but there was Anderson fighting griffin, bonnar, and irvin at LHW while he was mw champion.", 
        "This would be like Anderson going up to fight Werdum at heavyweight.", 
        "Not really. McG would have to fight Lawler for it to be like that. It's more like Silva going up to fight a HW Couture. ", 
        "That's true but you get my point.", 
        "What a time to be alive ", 
        "Please UFC, put microphones all over the octagon for this fight. On all the pillars, on the ref, hanging from the roof, just everywhere. I want to hear every word that is said during this fight. ", 
        "Why won't they do something like that? Such a missed oppertunity. ", 
        "They do. If you watch from the different camera angles on fight pass you can hear the corners and stuff throughout the fight.", 
        "I want that so so badly. ", 
        "I just imagined the fighters coming out like [this](http://gameofthronesfedex.weebly.com/uploads/1/4/2/2/14228509/8850302_orig.jpg) covered in mics.", 
        "Just a big 'ol boom mic on the refs head.", 
        "Put Herb Dean to ref, the mic will blend into his hair real fine", 
        "That's how I pictured it too. I'm glad we don't have a podcast or we'd be in trouble.", 
        "Lets do one. What do you know stuff about?\n", 
        "Nobody will notice if you hide it in [here](http://i.imgur.com/RqiEUzI.jpg).\n", 
        "And a couple in his pockets.", 
        "https://gfycat.com/BelovedOrangeBunting", 
        "Lmfao", 
        "What fight was this? What nerd is snap chatting him from point blank range, the gal. ", 
        "not sure which fight it was, but you can see ronda rousey's name on one of the electric banner thingys in the background!", 
        "I want him to wave a sign that says **CRITICAL DAMAGE** after a knockout.", 
        "Doing the most Vin Diesel thing ever. ", 
        "I clicked on this and got a black guy rubbing his hands walking up to a window.. clicked again and its vin diesel.. wtf just happened.\n\n\nEdit : reddit moved on me.", 
        "You mean the Birdman gif?", 
        "Yea, I am an idiot, I hit back and reddit must have refreshed the comments and moved the link i just clicked on, was birdman though. lol", 
        "Is that Vin diesel lmao", 
        "Pretty sure that's Pitbull. Mr. Worlwigh! ", 
        "No, Diesel is his last name, not lmao", 
        "nope. tom hanks.", 
        "Now i just wanna see mcgregor on a fast film", 
        "Riddick himself.", 
        "That's Riddickulous. \n\nEdit: Ehm thanks for the gold, but I'm fairly sure this is the worst thing I've ever said on reddit.", 
        "\"I'm very glad you made that joke, /u/irish91, but I'm not impressed by your pun, and I look forward to seeing your puns in the near future\" -GSP", 
        "Is that you Georges St-Pierre?", 
        "dada 5000", 
        "Can someone photoshop just bleed chest on this. ", 
        "Fuck legacy and two belts and fuck Bellator's fat guys.  This is what a  real fun freakshow fight should look like.  Two insane trash talkers with legitimate fighting skills beating the hell out of each other for no reason other than our amusement.  I'm so hyped.", 
        "> This is what a real fun freakshow fight should look like.\n\n\nThis is **not** a freakshow fight.\n\nIt would be asking too much of Nate to cut to 155 on a weeks notice, and Conor has been bulking up for a 155 fight, now he doesn't have to cut weight either.\n\nIt's kind of like Cowboy v Cowboy a few days ago, they're both 155'ers who fought at 170 because of the circumstances.\n\n\nThis isn't Melvin Manhoef v a 350lb Mark Hunt.\n\n\n", 
        "> This is not a freakshow fight.\n\nIt is to the extent that there's no real reason for Nate and Conor to be fighting one another.  It doesn't move either of them forward.  For both guys it's just a payday fight without much divisional significance.  But it's an awesome fight", 
        "No, it's a short notice replacement fight, nothing like a freakshow fight to any extent\n\nIf he was fighting CM Punk, then it would be a freakshow fight.", 
        "Po-tay-toe, po-tah-toe.", 
        "no-tay-toe :)", 
        "This isn't a freakshow fight", 
        "Well if you put it that way it makes us look a bit unsophisticated doesn't it..\n\nCOMPTON SLAP VS CELTIC CROSS LET'S GO", 
        "Stockon Slap.... Mother fucker.", 
        ">for no reason other than our amusement.\n\nWell...and a shit ton of money...", 
        "Maybe next up, Conor fights Shammy and Gracie at the same time. ", 
        "And money!! LOTS of money!!!!!! People are going to buy the shit out of this!!!", 
        "what's the over under that the fight actually happens in the cage and not the hotel lobby 12 hours before the fight?\n", 
        "I don't even follow MMA or UFC or anything that closely, but good god when I saw this headline I got excited.", 
        "\"i'm going to need you to work gentlemen\" ", 
        "I am so fucking torqued right now you have no idea", 
        "I will be far more than amused. I will be fully torqued.", 
        "This is exactly what I was thinking. THIS is a freakshow", 
        "Two guys pretty much the same size fighting in the UFC? They are fighting one weight class above what they would naturally fight at as it is a last minute fight. In no way is this a freakshow fight.", 
        "Conor suddenly fighting Nate fucking Diaz a week before 196 is straight out of some WWE scripted event shit. This is crazy.\nAnd pretty much the same size???? Nate Diaz is considered a pretty big and long LW and now is getting to fight at 170( a weight class Conor hasn't fought in) while Conor  is 5'9 and just left a division where he always had the reach advantage. Reach and height advantage are well in Nathan's corner.", 
        "The difference in size between Conor and Nate is comparable to the difference between Conor and Aldo, so it's not like it's crazy. Insane last minute matchup, no one will dispute that, but a freakshow it is most deffinetly not. Bob Sapp vs Nogueira, Jose Conseco vs Hong Man Choi; those are freakshows.", 
        "Is it possible this fight draws more than it would have with RDA? I know that's a stupid question, but shit.. I am mega hyped.", 
        "Yep, once we get the presser and there's plenty of shit talking back and forth casuals will eat it up.", 
        "I know I went from 100% going to watch it to now I'm locking myself in my house and drinking to speed up time until fight night.", 
        "This may change the sport forever!", 
        "Definitely. I don't think RDA is very well known outside of MMA circles and even if Nate is at the same level of obscurity the press conference alone will get the fight more attention than RDA could have. RDA hasn't been responding to McGregor's antics which means there's been far less soundbites, video clips etc in the lead up. Nate and Conor going at each other verbally will get a lot of casual fans on board.", 
        "I really doubt it. T\n\nhe PPV buys are going to take a huge hit. Two big name title fights draw lots of casual fans. You just lost most of them when the main fight is no longer a true title bout. ", 
        "I prefer this over the RDA fight. He didnt want to get his bum life changed, now the fans get the better fight.", 
        "Maybe, maybe not.  Nate did cut that awesome promo on big Fox after he beat Michael Johnson, and he's fought on free tv before so he's probably got more exposure than RDA does with casual fans.", 
        "I feel like the earth just erupted at this announcement. This news is blowing up a lot faster than RDA's injury report did. iT's crazy.", 
        "And it's going to be amazing.  The media calls.  The weigh ins.  The embedded.  \n\nAnd it being the Diaz brothers, there's the sanctioned fight in the Octagon AND the post-fight brawl in the crowd.\n\nGod I'm so excited I'm practically trembling.", 
        "everything will be amazing except the fight when diaz gets dusted because hes out matched in boxing and has nothing else.", 
        "Lol diaz bros have nothing but respect for mcgregor I have a feeling the only true trash talk we hear will be in the cage everything else will be BS to hype the fight", 
        "[Yes, I'm sure Nate won't have anything to say](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6RwPu2u4DCQ&feature=youtu.be). ", 
        ">the post-fight brawl in the crowd\n\nNot looking forward to this, going to the fights alone...\n\nWho's going to hold my beer?", 
        "True, Irish fans meeting Stockton fans. ", 
        "imagine half the stadium being drunking irish-folk and the other half being 209ers.\n\nwould be hilarious", 
        "there's an open workout 1030 pacific time in torrace CA tommorow open to media", 
        "Dont forget the fight in the hospital afterwards! ", 
        "Dont forget the prefights(media, weighins etc) you sometimes get with the Diaz's lol", 
        "Don't worry, Artem will be on hand to sort anyone out!\n", 
        "The ol' stockton sparring session. Artem & Ido better be ready...", 
        "My bum life needed this so bad", 
        "I too feel like a king.", 
        "From Ariel, they were discussing 160lb vs. 165lb, etc.:\n\n\"McGregor adds one more note:\n\n\"Make it 170,\" he says. \"Tell him to get comfortable.\"\n\nThe fight is made. At welterweight. \"\n\nThis is incredible. McGregor is real.", 
        "Are you that reatrded thinking that doesn't benefit him too? The cut he needs now is not gonna be that big as usual, where he shows as a living dead.", 
        "That also builds to Mcgregors advantage as well, not just Nates. ", 
        "This. (I thought I'd never comment \"this\"). McGregor is fresh off camp at 177 I believe so he barely has any weight to cut. I think this plays in his favor even more than it does Nate.", 
        "McG would have been preparing for a weight cut down to 155, cutting to 165 would have been easy for him. If he had insisted Nate cut that weight with no preparation and get fight fit in 11days, that would have put Nate at a large disadvantage. Saying this benefits McG more is ridiculous, if you ask me.", 
        "McGregor has some serious balls, nobody can say he doesn't back down. Love this guy.", 
        "Same here man. His last fight was the first fight I watched of ufc in a long time. I checked in because I wanted to see if he backed up all the shit he was talking.  And then we all saw what happened. Dude is incredible ", 
        ">no one can say he backs down\n\nFTFY", 
        "\"*he doesn't back down*\" or \"*nobody can say he doesn't back up what he says*\" maybe?", 
        "More like both.", 
        "*Somebody* got too excited while he was typing and forgot what he was saying, bless his little heart. And sher, you can't begrudge him his excitement.", 
        "McGregor is a true legend.", 
        "You do realize it's easier for McGregor as well right?", 
        "Easier to get to 170, sure, obviously, but also easier for him to lose at 170.", 
        "Why is it easier for him to lose at 170?  I don't see the logic here.  Diaz is about the same size as McGregor, so how will Diaz have an advantage at 170 but McGregor won't?", 
        "Because he's 25lb above a weight that he could get to, meaning 170 isn't his optimal weight. It isn't Nate's optimal weight either, but he's \"only\" going up 15lb from 155.", 
        "A world champ at 45, moving up TWO weightclasses, first fight at WW and fighting a ufc vet with WW experience.  You fucking wot m8 lol", 
        "McGregor got exposed.", 
        "You were the one who said it was an easier fight for him, not sure what your point is here bud", 
        "Yeah, it was an easier fight for him and he still lost.  ", 
        "You need jesus", 
        "I am already a God.", 
        "A UFC vet, yes, but that doesn't mean much.  Joe Riggs is a UFC vet as well.  And Diaz and McGregor are very similar in size.  Diaz is maybe only 5-10 pounds bigger than McGregor depending on how much weed he's smoking.  It's going to be easier for McGregor in the leadup to the fight because he won't have to cut weight.  What's difficult about understanding that?  The reason why I'm being downvoted is because r/MMA is obsessed with McGregor.", 
        "Did you just compare Joe Riggs to Nate Diaz? Im outta here lmao", 
        "Terrible response.  ", 
        "That, on the other hand, was a tremendous response!\n\nCheers mate", 
        "None of this makes a lick of sense m8.  ", 
        "It all makes complete sense m8.  m8, just look at how McGregor was exposed as evidence.", 
        "Ehhhh he is an absolute boss but it's only incredibly impressive if he wins. I way 170 and could challenge Cain is I put on enough weight just to get buttfucked but I wouldn't call it Legendary. ", 
        "Is he a true legend now? Fighting up in weight doesn't mean shit if he can't win. ", 
        "Hell yeah he's still a legend. Nobody else is doing that shit, and look at how awesome he made that fight.", 
        "Fooking Legend!", 
        "A true BAMF.", 
        "Nick and Nate vs Conor and Artem brawl in hotel before the fight?\n\nPress conference and weigh ins are going to be fun also\n\nHope someone teaches Nate how to invest the money", 
        ">Nick and Nate vs Conor and Artem brawl in hotel before the fight?\n\nwith swords", 
        "\ud83d\udd2b\ud83d\udd2b\ud83d\udd2b STOCKTON\ud83d\udd2b\ud83d\udd2b\ud83d\udd2b ", 
        "Diaz v McG really needs a full worldwide press tour, what a gongshow that would be\n\nMaybe for the rematch", 
        "That would be awesome, start in Stockton, end in Dublin.  The embeddeds and conferences for the Aldo/McG world tour were some of the best media the UFC has put out", 
        "Has Artem been spotted since his last loss? Is he doing a Rhonda and sitting in a dark room eating Tim Tams?", 
        "Ronda eats chicken wings, muricans don't have our Aussie Tim Tams as far as I know.  Saw Artem in the background training at SBG in a video, but no interviews", 
        "We do have Tims Tams in the states. ", 
        "Nick and Nate win that easy", 
        "I don't think they'll be allowed near each other. They're both like leashed pitbulls, it' ridiculous.", 
        "I was thinking Nick and Nate vs Conor and Gunnar ", 
        "With all the WWE antics they might as well introduce tag team matches", 
        "With all the WWE antics they might as well introduce tag team matches", 
        "And Khabib to get his revenge against the full camp. Plus he's cool with Conor haha", 
        "Artem was the first to jump up and get in there when Cody pushed Conor on Tough,  need his wild haymakers, Gunnars bjj wouldn't help if your getting Stockton Stomped by multiple dudes", 
        "Gunni cracked Thatch on the feet\n\n\nHe could hold his own", 
        "yeah im gunna take gunni over the human torso", 
        "I'd rather have Gunnar's striking than Artem's just look at his knockdowns of Omari Akhmedov and Thatch\n\n", 
        "You ever been in a group fight? The ones who are quiet are the ones you gotta look out for, scary shit.", 
        "You know it. ", 
        "Rory", 
        "Bring on the shit talking!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "They probably do respect each other but they're both going to turn that off and try to kill each other and they know how to tell the world when they're going to fuck somebody up. It's going to be glorious. Also Nate will stop liking him the second Conor talks shit while they're in the same room. ", 
        "[Stockton!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J1cJdS3rpSA)", 
        "McGregor is just going to repeat over and over how much more money he makes. Not really sure what Nate will say but it should be good", 
        "Nate's going to say he's the real motherfucking ninja and that he's going to slap the shit out of Conor McGregor and if they don't get separated he will actually slap him. ", 
        "I hope they have more than just Dana separating them at the weigh in ", 
        "I am so ready you have no idea.", 
        "I say we use Eddie Bravos idea of steel fence and body guards for hype.", 
        "I'm quite honestly more excited for this fight than I was for RDA. The RDA fight would've been great and was the right one to make, but this is a fight I actually want as a fan", 
        "That's how I feel too. This one has a bit more flavor to it and I think is a great set up fight for McGregor RDA (assuming Conor wins)", 
        "I'm 'penis in hand' ready. Are you?", 
        "Always.", 
        "It's definitely gonna last more than 4 hours... Mac is gonna have to cut me\n#theswelling", 
        ".....maybe?", 
        "You don't have his penis in your hand?", 
        "Should there be any penis in my hand? I feel like there should be a penis in my hand based on this conversation.", 
        "That's why you'll always be ckfighter2 and not cockfighter1.", 
        "The optimal method of jerking off a room full of redditors would be to have guys standing tip to tip ...   [tip to tip](http://youtu.be/7rdyrtEf2Jk)", 
        "Do you...  do you want a penis in your hands?", 
        "I mean, we're all grabbing his penis. I was just wondering whose hand was touching mine if it wasn't yours.", 
        "Oh so should I not be holding my own penis? I thought thats what we were doing", 
        "Don't you have two hands?", 
        "I do but I'm asking if I shouldn't have my own penis in my hand/hands. Just clarifying. What should I do with my other hand?", 
        "Your penis in my hand. Ready.", 
        "Your hand in my penis. Ready.", 
        "Wait.  In?", 
        "In.", 
        "In.", 
        "I need that Eddie Bravo idea about having them do a prison phone thing", 
        "Please, USADA, I've never asked you anything. STAY AWAY FROM NATE! In case they don't, please start cutting weight, Cerro-nay!", 
        "It's good USADA don't care for weed. NASC will though, bastards!", 
        "Sooo what happened with that 5 year suspension thing? I never heard.", 
        "I said it earlier: they just need to give Nate some locker room money and get the fight made.  Basically, make sure he gets paid even if he fails.  \n\n&nbsp;\n\nThis is going to be so much fun.", 
        "Cowboy doesnt need to cut for 170", 
        "Didnt even think of that, haha. Theres no way nate didnt smoke long enough to be clean. :D", 
        "The fight's at 170.", 
        "Has never failed a test...", 
        "How long do cannabis metabolites take to leave the system? Only a couple of days right? He should be fine if so.", 
        "Depends on a number of factors. Some people can be clean in a few days and others can take 30+ days. ", 
        "Nate isn't like Nick. Nick is still smoking in the days leading up to the fight so he feels his mental state is right. Nate hasn't shown the need to do that. I think his metabolites should be under.", 
        "he has goddamn two weeks. NATE PLEASE JUST STOP SMOKING FOR TWO WEEKS", 
        "That's though to do for a lifelong daily smoker. ", 
        "Or the UFC could use some of that money To help lobby against marijuana being considered a PED? Or hell, lobby for full descheduling of the substance at the federal level and it should help Immensely in the fight to get the commission with the times. \n\nThe guy is legally allowed to smoke pot in his state. How can they say he can't do it? That's fucking retarded. Probably even prescribed by a doctor. \n\nSo guys, for a very long time could take TRT because it was prescribed by a doctor, basically legal steroids, but weed is a no go regardless of doctor say? Get the fuck out. ", 
        "It can stay in your system for up to a month if you're a frequent smoker.", 
        "The components in weed that show on a drug test are stored in your fat cells.  \n\nI doubt with the limited amount of fat on Nate that he will have any trouble passing as long as he doesn't smoke for two weeks.  ", 
        "He was in good shape two months ago. Hopefully he's still in good shape. Remember how he came in against RDA?", 
        "I'd stop fapping for a chance of 500k/500k\nHeck, I'd give my neighbour a reach around for such sum", 
        "Your neighbor?  What does she look like?", 
        "You don't have to worry about USADA; it's the NSAC post-fight piss test we should all be concerned about.", 
        "Sooo what happened with that 5 year suspension thing? I never heard.", 
        "Nick dropped his appeal and in exchange the NSAC shortened his suspension to a year and a half.  He comes off suspension sometime this summer.  Which means he won't be able to corner Nate, which kind of sucks. ", 
        "I'm familiar with nicks penalties but has Nate been suspended before for weed? I can't remember that happening..  What I'm getting at is if he can get away without a suspension than it's worth it no matter what. They can shove their fine up their asses, it's red panty night for Nate. Do they suspend on first offense? I should know this....", 
        "If he wins, it voids the result and turns it into a no contest.  Weed used to be a six month suspension and a fine for a first offense; no idea what it is under the new sanctions the NSAC adopted. ", 
        "That's right!!! Duh, I knew that. Bad ass flair btw... I want one haha...", 
        "Oh, post-fight only, really? Then I don't have to worry at all.", 
        "The new tolerance threshold levels are supposedly so loose, that he would need to smoke on the day of the fight to fail.", 
        "I fully expect at some point we will see a Diaz brother smoke in between rounds. ", 
        "Still wouldn't surprise me", 
        "Out of comp use is fine, so yeah the fight night test is the only one that matters and it won't happen till after.\n\n", 
        "I think you might be missing the point. ", 
        "How so? ", 
        "He'll still get to see the fight even if the piss test is positive. So he doesn't care.", 
        "I understood that?  That's why I was explaining it to him. ", 
        "SOMEBODY GET ON THE HYPE VIDEOS I NEED TO MAINTAIN MY RAGING ERECTION FOR 11 DAYS", 
        "[hype](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-iIfi3SNpw)", 
        "Man I really wish that they could've had more time to build up this fight. I think on JRE they came up with a sketch where these two talk shit to each other through a prison phone booth, just mean muggin' each other the whole time through the plastic.", 
        "That was a amazing idea! :D Someone need to pitch this to Dana for real. It would be hilarious.. xD  ", 
        "Rivalry potential? You know the ufc would love these two shit talking each other even after they fight. And I know McG and Diaz both smell the green :) media tours where they \"accidentally\" book the two at the same time? GG", 
        "https://youtu.be/PnL7G-DgF_g", 
        "We are in the brightest time line.", 
        ">brightest \n\n>Nate Diaz\n\n\nPick one", 
        "Streets ahead", 
        "I mean, I would have loved to see that RDA fight too", 
        "We sure are. ;)", 
        "\"Nate doesn't move the needle\" - Dana White\n\n\"RDA is out, send a truck full of money and weed to Nate's House\" - Dana White", 
        "Wrong Diaz brother for weed. Nate will probably just give it to Nick, anyway.", 
        "Yeah man. Nate's pure as the driven snow.\n\nhttp://www.mmaplayground.com/forums/i/pi/652044_1.jpg", 
        "Maybe Dana was referring to injecting drugs with a needle, as we all know Nate's preferable choice is most likely a Stockton Spliff.", 
        "Needle =/= Spliff", 
        "Conor has some balls and good on Nate for taking the fight ", 
        "Good on Nate for taking the fight? UFC fighters are so underpaid and this fight was essentialy a lottery ticket for whoever got to fight Conor.  I would have taken this fight.", 
        "Still takes balls to get in the ring with an peak condition Connor on this short of notice.", 
        "I Disagree. This is Nate's dream situation. He would have never disagreed to this fight. Like i said, this is a lottery ticket. Especially for someone as seemingly close to being retarded as Diaz. Listening to that press conference I honesly started to consider that he might be autistic. ", 
        "tunes into sportscenter and they are showing me basketball highlights. thanks fox sports!", 
        "You didn't miss anything /s", 
        "Uhh... I don't think you mean sportscenter as that is an ESPN staple. I'm guessing you meant Fox Sports Live (I think that's their sports highlight show).", 
        "the announcement was suppose to be on sportscenter, instead i got over 10 minutes of basketball highlights. in those 10 minutes, fox sports announced the fight before dana could.", 
        "oh. ESPN doesn't usually cover UFC, so I'm not surprised they showed basketball. I didn't realize that Dana was suppose to be on ESPN. My bad.", 
        "Dana was on Sportscenter just now as well", 
        "I thought he was gonna face Villanova about 15 minutes in.", 
        "###**[The TRASH-TALK can now officially COMMENCE!!!!!] (http://i.imgur.com/oInEqir.gif)**", 
        "It's been going for a while. Now Nate just gets a larger stage for it.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/O569Obd.gif", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/c6uGJV0.gifv", 
        "Never seen that one before, what a pleasant little gif.", 
        "Peasant*", 
        "Ok, I'm back on. Choo-choo.", 
        "This is one fun train to be on!", 
        "This is even better!! Welter fucking weight!!", 
        "https://media.giphy.com/media/nKvIfUPaqyD5u/giphy.gif", 
        "What if Conor is the first one to Stockton slap Diaz :O. r/mma explodes...", 
        "RDA slapped the shit out of Nate after Nate slapped him.", 
        "Glad they didn't make it for an interim title. ", 
        "It's actually for the 170lb interim title. Conor sure has pull ", 
        "Wrong, no belt on the line.", 
        "Woosh", 
        "I'm sorry :(", 
        "They probably would have if it was at 155 instead of 170", 
        "wait a second\n\n\"The fight will take place at welterweight with Diaz accepting the fight on short notice and McGregor happily accepting the move to 170 pounds.\"\n\nWELTERWEIGHT????? HAS MCG LOST IT?! i am freaking out right now\n\n(also: LAWLER for UFC 200 IT IS ON!!!!!!)", 
        ">  i am freaking out right now\n\nWhy?\n\nDiaz is already handicapped by not having a camp. You want him doing the full cut too? He is a pretty big LW.", 
        "More likely it will be RDA McGreggor no?", 
        "McGregor will skip RDA as punishment for his sins... no red panties for him.", 
        "They are the same size, McGregor cuts a lot of weight to make it to 145, he looks like a concentration camp survivor when at the weightins.\n\nI think it's great that they fight at the \"normal\" weight.", 
        "As it should always be. I hope the UFC adopts come of the methods being used out there to ensure this happens in the future. ", 
        "What... hes just weighing in at WW instead of cutting weight. He still weighs as much as any LW. If he wants to fight other actual WWs then he needs to put on 20lbs. ", 
        "Just means he won't have to cut any weight. He's probably walking around at 175ish right now. Just have to cut 5lbs instead of 20lbs and same with Nate ", 
        "Wouldn't he have already started the process of cutting to 155? I wouldn't be surprised if he is walking around under 170 right now.", 
        "And Nate will get to focus on training instead of cutting!", 
        "Yeah he used to weigh 77-78 kg (169-171 pounds) before cutting to Featherweight so I guess he is like 80 - 82 kg ( 175-179 pounds) at a conservative guess. \nWelterweight makes as much sense to McGregor as it does to Nate.", 
        "They're still both LW fighters, though. All this means is that they're not cutting weight, or not much weight.\n\nIf Diaz had to make 155, he wouldn't have any time for training.", 
        "I really don't understand why people are flipping out about this.", 
        "Because a lot of people don't realize that fighters cut 30+ pounds for a fight. They think they just low carb for a week and call it a day. ", 
        "Right, it means is that things will be easier on Nate and Conor, and we get to see 2 non-drained fighters go at it. But I dont see why everyone here is acting like he is a mad man. Yeah he is accepting a fight at 170, but its against a LW fighter (who has fought at 170 before).", 
        "Probably because his last fight was at 145. It's pretty unheard of (other than maybe BJ) for a fighter to jump two weight classes for a fight. Even though Nate fights at lightweight, he has a lot of experience fighting at WW too, and he is way too big to ever make 145.\n\nNot only that, but McGregor is probably already pretty light since he was cutting to make 155. He could have taken advantage of the situation by making Diaz cut some weight in a short amount of time, but said fuck it let's do 170.\n\nLastly, most fighters would be more of a diva about the fact that they are no longer fighting for a belt (especially someone that is already a champ) since they don't want to risk the loss on a non title fight, but Conor is showing he doesn't care about that nor is he afraid to fight anyone. ", 
        "Doesnt Nate only have like a couple fights at WW though, and not very successful? Unless Im misremembering. Not to mention that Diaz would only have a couple weeks to go down ~15 lbs without a prior training camp. Every day they wait makes it harder on him to drop weight and make the deal harder to make. Just saying \"fuck it, any weight is good\" is the best call at this point, IMO.\n\nI mean huge props to McGregor for taking any fight, he has the biggest balls of any champion and that is no doubt putting him in the HOF. But fighting a guy roughly the same size and weight class as you but a weigh class up to avoid the cut isnt exactly something I would say is insane. On the other hand, if he accepted it against a large WW, I wouldnt know what to say.\n\nJust my opinion.", 
        "Nate is more fit to fight at 170 with his frame (look how emaciated he looks when he comes in at 155). Problem is he lacks the strength to be successful against the strong wrestlers at 170 so he cuts to LW to get the size/reach advantage. Diaz is 6'0\", while McGregor is 5'9\", so there is actually a pretty big size difference here. All of these factors, along with the fact that he's not even fighting for a title anymore, contribute to the insanity of this fight.", 
        "He is a small WW if anything. My uneducated guess is he weighs as much as an average LW fighter walking around, and probably a little more than Conor. He is just a tall lanky dude, and has a 2\" reach advantage, so that makes things interesting for sure. But it's pretty regular to have that discrepancy.", 
        "> and probably a little more than Conor.\n\nDefinitely walks around at a higher weight that Conor. I could never imagine Diaz making 145. Dude would be a tooth pick.", 
        "Yeh its really not a big deal. Its not like they can put on a load of muscle in 10 days", 
        "McGregor is a Featherweight fighter, not a lightweight fighter. ", 
        "Roger that m8. I understand that it makes sense for Diaz. Just saying that mcG must have balls of steel to just skip past the 160/165 negotiations and tell nate to 'get comfortable at 170' (ariel helwani's twitter!!). \n\nmaybe those are how he makes weight? ha ha ha :-)", 
        "Not balls of steel just knows that if he has a catchweight it looks weak and doesn't do anything for him. \nEven if he beats a lightweight at welterweight it gives the UFC a chance to hype him up for WW fights.", 
        "Also McGregor (if it goes wrong) is technically not losing a title fight, although losing to Diaz will still be sore for him.", 
        "[This dude called it!](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/41x1zo/whats_this_all_about_nate_waving_to_the_ufc_and/cz5vwlq)", 
        "Yeah, RDA probably broke his foot on purpose.", 
        "How do you have these things on hand?!", 
        "It was posted in another thread earlier today. Amazing how accurate the prophecy was. ", 
        "Awwwww sheeet, tinfoil hats be coming out!", 
        "209 motherfucker!", 
        "no, 170. ", 
        "STOCKTON", 
        "I honestly think you guys are the only city in the Central Valley that might have it worse than us, and I lived in Modesto", 
        "Seems about right ", 
        "How is Conor gonna act when Nate gets in his face? I cannot wait for this! It's like almost everyone is going for both of them, too!", 
        "or when he is on the receiving end of a stockton slap :o", 
        "I think that's what he wants. Remember the Porier fight, where the second he dropped his hands to talk back, he got knocked the fuck out. Same thing with Brandao and Siver, who both walked forward and ate punches. Same with Aldo, who wanted to knock Conor out so bad he got caught. Mendes, who has by far the best performance against Conor, stood patiently in front of Conor, and ate his strikes and waited for his take down opporunities (same for Holloway, but not counting that cause of the ACL injury).", 
        "> Mendes, who has by far the best performance against Conor\n\nI think Duffy and Sitenkov might have something to say about that. \n\nJokes aside, I do agree with you. ", 
        "You're right, I should have said in the UFC. I haven't watched his fights not in the UFC so I have no idea.", 
        "[Conor vs Duffy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lkjwIZhT5hg)\n\n\n[Conor vs Sitenkov](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fIP5MsXxXjs)", 
        "nate is crazy enough to actually smack conor pre fight, it kind of worries me ", 
        "> nate is crazy enough to actually smack conor pre fight, it kind of arouses me", 
        "It's the first time he's faced a shit talker of his own caliber. Shits about to get hectic these next 11 days", 
        "ITS GOING TO BE GLORIOUS ", 
        "\"McGregor has never been tested against a truly elite shit-talker. Nate Diaz represents the first true test of McGregor's shit talking.\"", 
        "This is so much doper than the RDA fight. I am literally fucking laughing out loud with joy that this is happening. How can you not love both of these fighters?", 
        "What's with the nate hype? He's only rank 5, so it seems like a big downgrade from fighting the champion.. Is it only because he trash talks or what? ", 
        "He is just exciting to watch, great punching combinations, talks throughout fights sometimes, gestures and taunts, and has a weird fighting style. He almost looks like he's street fighting in there just with great technique", 
        "I'm as bummed as anybody Rafael Dos Anjos has to pull out of the fight, but my  god. If the thought of Nate Diaz sharing the octagon with Conor fucking McGregor doesn't get you excited, you're simply lying to yourself. ", 
        "It honestly doesnt. Nothing about this excites me in the slightest. We went from a super fight of truly epic caliber, to fighting a random catch weight between a belt holder and a guy who has lost 3 out of his last 5 matches.\n\nThe only reason this is even a thing is because they shit talk, and i have no interest in the shit talking, I want to see good fights. I highly doubt this will be a good fight.", 
        "They are two guys who are equally wild in and out of the octagon. Two super egos clashing on very short notice. It's not really about the shit talking, it is about what the shit talking represents. Ego. ", 
        "Yeah, except ones ego is deserved, the others is not. It's just not a good fight from the looks of it. Im not here for drama and bullshit, i want to see a great brawl. ", 
        "I truly think you are going to see a great brawl. This is literally the next best thing to Conor RDA in my opinion. ", 
        "I hope your right!", 
        "Congratulations. You win the karma lottery today.\n\nEdit: 5 minutes in, I've removed 14 reposts about it already.\n\nEdit: 15 minutes in. I've lost count. Around 34, 35 now. Help.\n\nEdit: 20 minutes. Fuck counting. Around 50. I've added new flair option: \"Team 209, WHAT\"\n\nEdit: 28 minutes. Who the fuck is the smart-ass that reported this as \"old news\"?!\n\nSeven hours later: I've had a couple of PMs asking. I ended up removing about 75 posts announcing Diaz as the opponent. I'm sure the other moderators did a fair amount too.", 
        "Only 75 posts?\n\nLET'S GETS THIS REMOVED POST COUNT TO 209, WHAT", 
        "I would like to know how close I was haha", 
        "Please keep this flair forever and never remove it", 
        "Fucking sweet flair. ", 
        ">I've added new flair option: \"Team 209, WHAT\"\n\ncame to ask for this\n\nthank you ", 
        "When you're done drowning in reposts, please to make Team Diaz flairs. ", 
        "Look again.", 
        "Crap - I looked and lost my old flair. I'll PM you guys when this slows down tomorrow.", 
        "I love you. ", 
        "[Rejoice.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2-43p3GVTQ)", 
        "p4p copy&paste king. ", 
        "Take that Kenny Florian!", 
        "Some poor guy was a very close second I saw!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "https://i.imgflip.com/d7fr6.jpg", 
        "Can you imagine the sweaty fingers and how hard his heart was beating to get to post it first", 
        "I was ready, I did the hard work and watched ESPN, but then last minute I flipped over too the food network one last time. My thumb broke on the channel up button and I had to pull out of the fight. It's a contact sport, these things happen.", 
        "His weak arms got heavy", 
        "sp", 
        "OP had better clean his sticky keys before his girlfriend sees. ", 
        "Baby, we done it!", 
        "Conor McGregor's fight karma made us rich break out the Reddit Gold. ", 
        "When McGregor fights its a karma celebration. Call the wife, \"Baby we made it!  We posted first!  Break out the red panties!\"", 
        "He's changing our bum lives ", 
        "Conor gets to test going to 170 without a belt on the line, not a bad idea.", 
        "Not a real 170 pound fight though. Both guys will just be coming in at their walk around weight for Lightweight. Still probably a good twenty pounds smaller than they'd be if they were planning to fight at 170 ", 
        "What is your logic?\n\nNate is a 155 fighter, he just isn't in camp. An actual WW is much larger as we kind of saw when the WWs chased Nate back to LW. Never forget the ragdolling Rory did to him.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Also he gets to see how he performs at 170. Will he be as quick? Can he doe all the same things 25lbs heavier. (I know he was never actually fighting while weighing exactly 145lbs, but you know what I mean)", 
        "The Diaz brothers are kind of always in camp.", 
        "I'm not convinced that is as true for Nate as it clearly is for Nick.", 
        "Yeah, and people are calling Conor brave/crazy etc. It's a bigger deal that Diaz actually took up this fight.", 
        "I don't think so. Nate's record is 18-10 now. He'd lose at a weight that he doesn't fight in anyway anymore since he appears to be focusing on 155. I'd take the biggest payday of his life for 18-11 any day. If he was undefeated, okay... we'd talk more money. On top of that he gets a lot of exposure to European fans and casuals. If he loses to Conor at 170 he'd most likely still get a decent opponent at 155 after beating #5 of the 155 division and taking into account that he didn't have too much time to prepare for McGregor.", 
        "Diaz is not a natural 155er. Dude has missed weight on more than one occasion and always comes in looking emaciated. He just isn't strong enough to hang with the strong wrestlers at 170 so he cuts so he can get the size/reach advantage at lightweight.\n\n", 
        "https://youtu.be/G0cG3DJ4q6Q", 
        "His body won't be built for 170 after prepping for 155.  Nate is a 155lb fighter, this just makes it easier for both guys (specifically nate) to make weight.", 
        "Sooo is it fair to assume both will be underweight by a good amount? ", 
        "Mcgregor was planning to go up to 170 after winning the 155 belt for ufc 200.", 
        "AFAIK the 170 was a rumor or an idle hint by a manager without a timeframe, nothing Conor ever said for sure. I saw a video interview of Conor that I think was a couple days ago by a local reporter where Conor said (IIRC) that he was going to fight at 145 for UFC 200. Granted these new developments may change things.\n\nedit: rewatched the interview, my bad, no mention of 145, I must have misremembered.", 
        "yeah it's not so much a WW fight as two guys not having to cut weight and fighting at their walk around.\n\nstill fucking awesome and I can't wait for this fight.", 
        "This is not the fight the fans deserve, it's the fight the fans need.", 
        "Marc Raimondi \u200f@marc_raimondi  3m3 minutes ago\nThere\u2019s a UFC 196 media day tomorrow in LA. McGregor and Nate Diaz will both be there. That\u2019s going to be all kinds of fun.", 
        "Connor's probably memorizing his shit talk as we speak", 
        "Oh god. I wasn't sure anything could top El Chapo McGregor but tomorrow should be epic! ", 
        "**GOOD GOOGLY MOOGLY....**", 
        "I see this posted all the time, and it's [not even the right quote...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hSAXLayoMKI) I think most people probably don't even know where it came from and just copy the same thing", 
        "It's from the Joe Rogan podcast... not sure what the fuck that is that you just linked...", 
        "It's the original source that the Joe Rogan podcast completely butchered. This snickers commercial is from like 1996", 
        "I don't fucking care, I'm quoting Joe Rogan not whatever that shit is.", 
        "\"You miss 100% of the shots you don't take. - Wayne Gretzky\" - the_marvelous_penis", 
        "That's actually one of my favorite quotes. ", 
        "THAT THANG IS JUICY", 
        "Wether you like or dislike McGregor you have to admit, the man talks the talk and walks the walk.\n\nHe is accepting another fight under 2 weeks notice.\n\nHe is the champion we need and deserve an active champion.", 
        ">Wether you like or dislike McGregor you have to admit, the man talks the talk and walks the walk.\n\nHe does (he was gonna fight fucking RDA), but this isn't the biggest example of it. Nate is like the perfect fighter to walk into his counter punches, and he knows it. He might as well be fighting Diego Sanchez.", 
        "There is a lot of champions that would of pull from the card.\n\nSpecially if is 2 weight classes above their weight class.", 
        "I'm sure a truckfull of money also helps", 
        "Dude, I think he'd fight for free.  The dude just loves to mix it up and it's beautiful to watch", 
        "He's said time and time again he's in it for the money.", 
        "Someone call Jon Jones. This is the way a champion should be.", 
        "And it's at 25 pounds above his belt. Mad man! ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/wNetQsb.gifv", 
        "Nate getting paid.", 
        "Hes finally going to get out of Stockton now. Conor bless.", 
        "Nate and Nick could be three time lottery winners and still live in Stockton/Lodi. It's their lifelong home", 
        "So much for 20/20", 
        "cue McGregor screaming into a mic, \"I changed yer bum lyfe\"", 
        "This is probably going to be his biggest pay day\n", 
        "No weight cuts, all shit talk. Let's do it.", 
        "FUCKING WELTERWEIGHT DIVISION HOLY SHIT", 
        "welterweight is technically 156 so it isn't as huge of a deal as everyone says.", 
        "Man. Why Welterweight though?\n\nWorries me a bit. This absolutely must have been done for Nate, there must have been no way he could have made 155 in 2 weeks. In other words, I hope he's not *too* out of shape for this.\n\nAnyway. I wish they coulda made these guys cut a little bit. Catchweight at 160-165. \n\nAnyway. The **BALLS ON THESE GUYS**.  Who the Fuck wants to fight Nate Diaz on a 2 week notice, 2 weight classes up? Who the Fuck wants to fight Conor Macgregor on a 2 week notice out of shape? After he dispatched Mendes and Aldo?", 
        "Diaz knows he got the good end of the stick, but McGregor is not even complaining, it's not fair for you to say they both got equal levels of balls, you're just saying that because we live in this society that's filled with losers who \"all need to be treated equally\". That's sad man, it's preventing you from giving credit where credit is do. Fuck these pussies who can't stand up for themselves, and need everyone else to be a bitch like them.  ", 
        "Here's my theory, Conor is trying to get big enough to leave 145 behind, he's bulking up, looking to be physically big enough to not get muscled around by a tank like RDA.\n\nIf he saves himself having to cut then he saves himself stress on the body for no benefit.", 
        "Why do you wish they had to cut? If the fighters could all show up at their natural weights we would get better fights. We're going to see the best Connor and the best Nate in this fight. ", 
        "Basically Conor wanted to let Nate train instead of cut for these last 2 weeks so he comes best we can be. ", 
        "Never doubt the cardio of a Diaz ", 
        "I wonder why they didn't just go with Cowboy?", 
        "It's a great storyline for McG, why fight at 155 with nothing on the line? Moving up to 170 and winning will be much more compelling than beating a deflated Nate Diaz. UFC and McG is building a narrative   with the most impact when it comes to headlines/tweets etc with him moving up in weight.", 
        "Realistically, they'll both have to cut at least five pounds.\n\nIf Nate had to make 155, he'd kill himself doing it and wouldn't be able to get any real training it. This way, he at least has 10 days to get into fight shape, even though he won't have a full camp in.", 
        "Maybe neither guy wanted to cut weight, and they just agreed 170 was more comfortable for both of them.", 
        "It was all on Diaz.  He couldn't make 155 in 11 days. ", 
        "I think Conor is only happy to drop any cutting as well. He knows Nate isn't going to be coming in suddenly yolked into WW size on this kind of notice. No doubt mainly for Diaz though.", 
        "Apparently they offered a 165 catch-weight and McGregor said let him stay at 170! ", 
        "Yeah between fights last time people were saying he looked in the 190lbs range or so. They might have been exaggerating but even if he were at 175-180 it may be an unnecessary bitch to cut the weight to lightweight.", 
        "I don't think Mc G started cutting weight yet, so he's probably right around 170, Nate will probably have to cut just a bit ", 
        "The way I see it, it allows the UFC to protect McG's path. If he loses, he can still fight RDA @ 155 (possibly at UFC 200) and if he wins, heck feed him to Lawler?! Or do RDA. He usually walks at 170 when fighting FW, so I would assume he bulked up to high 170s for LW. Nate is probably in the low 180s... Size difference won't be too noticeable and McG will be in MUCH better shape.\n\nBoth have huge sets of balls, definitely putting a few bucks on Nate if the odds are crazy but I unfortunately expect Conor to run trough him.", 
        "There's definitely money to be made if the line's right on Diaz. I don't expect him to win, but I wouldn't be the least surprised if he did. His volume work is spectacular and if it hits the mat McGregor's way out of his league. He looked brilliant against Johnson.", 
        "Not to mention I don't see a lot of grappling in this one. ", 
        "I think mcgregor will do 155 at 200, since it will give him the option of going 145 or 170 afterwards. ", 
        "If he loses to Nate, fighting for the 155lb title will be a tough sell", 
        "He takes a last minute fight 15 lbs over what he was scheduled to fight at, 25 lbs over his current belt. Even though Nate is a small WW, I don't see how going back to the original fight would be hard to sell, unless he gets truly and completely dismantled by Nate, which I don't expect. If he were to lose, it would either be a crazy battle lost on points or a quick sub, which would still make him a legitimate 155 contender (even though I still don't agree with the immediate title shot in general, it is what it is). My 2 cents, but clearly UFC brass is expecting a win... They would never set him up for failure, especially after stepping up the way he did (most likely why they refused to get Khabib, Ferguson or Pettis, or even Faver as a loss to them would hurt his earning potential moving forward).", 
        "Nate is a LW fighter, they just aren't cutting because Nate probably didn't keep his weight low enough to hit 155 out of camp.", 
        "Conor is going to be a thick and quick 170. He can just do cardio and mitts for the next two weeks.", 
        "What does Conor walk around at?  DAK?", 
        "He's probably around 155-170. This is easy as fuck for Conor guaranteed he hardly has to cut a God damn thing. ", 
        "I've universally heard he's 170. If he's willing to fight at the weight I'm guessing it's closer to 175. \n\nBut he's not 155 dude... He's not a moron, he wouldn't accept a fight 15 pounds above his walking around weight on 2 weeks notice.", 
        "Training is over.", 
        "It'll be at 170.", 
        "#Celtic Cross vs. #Stockton Slap here we come", 
        "They're gonna fight at welterweight? Holy shit", 
        "Only wish this would be a full camp... Not for them to train but for the extra press conferences!", 
        "http://gfycat.com/TestyLoathsomeAstarte", 
        "Holy fuck, McGregor is a savage.", 
        "Words cannot describe how excited I am.", 
        "\"Stop holding bitterness deep in your bum soul. Stuck on $20,000 to show and $20,000 to fight. I wipe my ass with that money. I tip your wage, Nate, yeah.\"\n\nhere we go\n", 
        "Legendary trash talk coming!!!", 
        "I think Conor could really let Nate have it verbally if he prepares some stuff. Could be brutal..", 
        "Most definitely. I predict some good weed mentions and something about Nate not going down to 155 lol", 
        "Fucking disappointed there's only 11 days of shit talking vs full camp of shit talking :(", 
        "Holy shit. Let's go Conor. No more near-death Conor at weigh ins.", 
        "I think I speak for a lot of us here today when I say... STOCKTON MOTHERFUCKER.", 
        "2 OH 9", 
        "WOOOOO", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/4f7fZsl.gifv", 
        "This deserves way more ups.", 
        "Thanks man, my GIF game proper.", 
        "I hate Diaz and am an unabashed fan of McGregor.\n\nThat said...Nate is going to choke Conor out.", 
        "you are the new mystic mac", 
        "A gift and a curse. ", 
        "I'll literally fall to my knees at whatever shitty bar I end up at laughing if this happens. A man can hope", 
        "lol at the shitty bar comment. ", 
        "Did you fall?", 
        "Holy shit I was screaming and literally almost flipped a table. Was going absolutely apeshit but no I did not fall haha", 
        "Calling it now.  Diaz will get popped for weed following this fight and will have to serve 2 years.  \n\nAnd i bet that Joe Silva/Dana White/Lorenzo asked him whether he was ready for that.... not if he was gonna pass...", 
        "bingo. they're gonna set him up the same way they setup nick. I hope he sticks with his brothers lawyers and they drag the commissions ass to court. the punishment nick got was bullshit.", 
        "People are still doing time for weed?", 
        "Nate doesn't smoke weed and he never has failed a drug test.", 
        "he would have probably disappeared for well over a year once he got his millions from the fight, Nick did the same thing after he got his GSP payday. ", 
        "he might just make more money on this fight than he would make in the next 2 years anyway, just saying.", 
        "Didn't USADA raise the limit though?", 
        "Don't forget that the NSAC will want their pound of flesh... or in this case, their quart of piss...", 
        "Hopefully he makes a truck load of cash in the mean time! ", 
        "These two won't be able to be anywhere near each other!", 
        "209 vs 353\nwhich area code will come out on top?!", 
        "[/r/mma](http://i.imgur.com/Nyop7iN.gif)", 
        "Fuck I can't breath. ", 
        "My stomach hurts from laughing. I haven't seen that one before.", 
        "The difference between Nate and his crew and the Conor's previous opponents is that Nate (and Nick) is willing to brawl anywhere. Like you talk shit to him, he'll brawl in a parking lot, at the press conference, anywhere.", 
        "Yeah I have legit concerns the fight never happens because of some chaos breaking out at a press conference.", 
        "As long as they film it, at least we'll have a fight... \n\nBut seriously Nick is always with Nate, and if Conor tries any of that stuff he pulled vs Aldo the Diaz bros will go brawl then and there. They don't care if the fight gets pulled, they just start punching if they feel disrespected and are within range.", 
        "Born and raised in the Central Valley. Can confirm. Fucking scrappers everywhere down there.", 
        "No, they won't. They won't do a thing because the amount of money on the line.\n\nThey are grown men, not school kids. They will hype the fight as always, but they are not going to do anything stupid.", 
        "They aren't going to punch with this amount of money on the line lol. Believe me theyll suck it up like they've never done. This single fight, is going to be worth years of income for Nate, money they need right now. I'm sure he's guaranteed a hefty amount for accepting the fight. He's not going to ruin his bargain.", 
        "I'll take Diaz by flying triangle from the second floor of the MGM 1'st round of media day.", 
        "if you're Brazilian and scheduled to fight McGregor you get injured.. it's what you do..\n\nseriously though this might end up being more entertaining than the title fight ", 
        "What about Brandao?", 
        "I reckon it will be way less competitive, the build up to the fight will be more exciting :P", 
        "I wonder if there were any WW guys asking for this fight.. It would be interesting to know.", 
        "if its at 170 and he wins.. is that setting enough of a precedent for him to skip over dos anjos for now and fight lawler at ufc 200?", 
        "Conor v GSP @ UFC 200 @ 170", 
        "I think Conor is forging his own precedents and can do whatever he wants. In the end, most of us are watching his fights because we want to see him fight, not because we care about who has what belt. \n\n\nDon't get me wrong, I want to see him win belts. I want to see him win fights. \n\n\n But it's not like I won't watch just because it's not a title fight. \n\n", 
        "I'm much more excited for this fight than I was for him facing RDA. We know Nate won't even entertain the idea of taking Conor to the ground, so I feel like we're going to get to see a lot more of his stand up arsenal.", 
        "I actually think it'll go to the ground, just probably not in the first round.. ", 
        "I just wish there was more time for the trash talk. This is gonna be epic.", 
        "\u00a1\u00a1\u00a1NEWSFLASH!!! \n\nWalmarts across Stockton are reporting they've sold out of red panties!", 
        "So many people freaking out that the fight is at Welterweight. They're going to be pretty much the same size had they fought at Lightweight, the only difference is they won't be cutting for the weigh ins", 
        "Fighting at 170? He's getting Conor on horse meat ", 
        "Pony steaks.", 
        "Not that Conor needs it, but he deserves a raise for willing to go up to 170.", 
        "For willing?  It's going to be easier for him to fight at 170 anyways.", 
        "Then why doesn't every fighter fight at their walking weight?", 
        "Just want to point out that I'm being downvoted because of the McGregor circle-jerk in this subreddit, even though his coach and teammates agree that it will be easier for McGregor to fight at 170.", 
        "I thought about it a bit and I kind of agree with you now. It would be a different story if Conor agreed to fight Robbie Lawler at 170, since that's where Robbie made his home, and he's primed to fight at that weight.\n\nBut since Nate and Conor are both fighting above their weight classes (even though it's a bigger leap for Conor), the playing field is more-or-less level.", 
        "Well said.  That's why I was confused why everyone was talking about how brave McGregor is for moving up to 170 to fight a natural 155er, when IMO it's even more brave for Diaz to fight McGregor on 2 weeks notice.  ", 
        "It's going to be easier for him to fight Nate Diaz specifically at 170.  Diaz is only a little bigger than McGregor, but not by much.  Neither guy will really have to cut much weight and it'll be an even playing field.", 
        "Because Lawler would claim that 170 is his \"walking weight\" and would wipe the floor against anyone who is putting on bad weight like in this situation.", 
        "Well it's not like Diaz is a welterweight ", 
        "Fuck yes. This is the best possible scenario, IMO. Conor now has a free pass to 3 different belts when and how he wants them. Diaz really won big, though, he's getting real paid and doesn't have to worry about a significant weight cut. RDA should be thankful, too. I'm happy. Can't wait for this fight!", 
        "yeah should get at least like 24/24 for this!", 
        "I read he's getting 500k/500k + 250k for the next 4 fights. Not too shabby, if you ask me.", 
        "sauce?", 
        "This might be bullshit, but here's what I read, for what it's worth:\n\nhttp://forum.mixedmartialarts.com/thread/2535113/Nate-gets-Conor-and-4-fight-contract/?&page=4", 
        "Fox Sports stealing SportCenter's thunder.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "SportCenter is an ESPN show, it's a rival network.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah SportsCenter was set to be the first to break the news, it was announced that Dana White would be live on the show to let everyone know what the fight was going to be and then while SportsCenter was running late with basketball analysis and FS announced it via twitter before Dana came on.", 
        "ESPN don't care about MMA compared to Fox Sports", 
        "This really is the best back up fight.", 
        "Get out your flim flam ladies and gents", 
        "Given how much of a thorn Nate has been in Dana's side the last couple of years, wouldn't it be fitting that he was the one to blow up the McGregor hype train?", 
        "No matter what Diaz has a punchers chance. McGregor and the UFC could lose millions of dollars and reputation in this bout... which is totally awesome and shows how big McGregors balls really are. ", 
        "it's a fight 2 weight classes up against an opponent on 2 weeks notice.\n\nthe fact he even took this fight at 170 instead of a catch weight will probably balance it out of he loses and the stock won't fall too far. ", 
        "conor happy to fight at 170? guys the real deal", 
        "They're just lightweights skipping a weightcut right?  Its not like he's fighting an *actual* welterweight.", 
        "he's the star though. imagine mayweather in this position? he'd make his opponent drain himself to near death", 
        "https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702344568403062784\n\n- @ 170!!!", 
        "Ignorant here but why is 170 a big deal? ", 
        "Mcgregor has been teasing a move to welterweight. This shows he's actually willing to fight at that weight and wasn't just talking shit. ", 
        "we get to see what conor looks like uncut ", 
        "Swoled as fuck", 
        "He's going to pack dynamite in his punches at 170", 
        "McGregor going from 145 to 170 in 1 fight. Also, Diaz said he can't do 155, so Conor basically said let's just do 170, as a fuck you to Diaz. ", 
        "[**@arielhelwani**](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-24 04:09 UTC](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702344568403062784)\r\n\r\n> There it is. McGregor vs Diaz is on for March 5. At welterweight. Yes, 170 pounds. https://twitter.com/FOXSports/status/702343809280004096\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "Curious to see how much power Conor has up at welterweight. ", 
        "I appreciate your analogies.", 
        "https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702347074252177408", 
        "[**@arielhelwani**](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-02-24 04:19 UTC](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani/status/702347074252177408)\r\n\r\n> ... McGregor adds one more note:\n\n> \n\n> \"Make it 170,\" he says. \"Tell him to get comfortable.\"\n\n> \n\n> The fight is made. At welterweight. \\#ufc196\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "My dick can only get so erect!!!", 
        "Such a better fight IMO. GIT HYPED", 
        "Really? Nate is a pretty stiff fighter. He has stand up, sure but he's not as slick or active as RDJ. He's going to keep it real on the feet and find himself too slow for conor.", 
        "But I feel he might do better than most people expect. I could be very wrong but Diaz style is quite different than most of Conor's previous opponents in that he won't try to run him down with really heavy shots.  He is a volume striker and doesn't over extent to get a punch or two in. Is good at his distance and can in and out pretty effectively.  Plus he is pretty good on the ground. He might try and take it there though I agree with you on the keeping it real thing so he will probably look to stand and bang.  Also Nate is better at dealing with the pressure of a fight, to him its not the end of the world if he loses and he is gonna be more calm out there than anybody Conor's face.  \n\nOf course I could be dead wrong and Nate ends up getting KO'd early on... But I do think there is the potential for a satisfying few rounds with them trading blows. ", 
        "> k or active as RDJ. He's going to keep it real on the feet and find himself too slow for conor.\n\nNothing to do with his ability and everything to do with attitude and character.", 
        "Conor is actually insane, I thought he was before, but this confirms it. ", 
        "He's believing his own hype. He isn't Jon Jones, he is going to get punished soon.", 
        "insane or extremely confident? #nooneknows", 
        "Lets go with stupid.", 
        "but if he wins is it stupid then? #therealquestion", 
        "Jon Jones always wins, and he is still stupid. ", 
        "but mcgregor is not jones? #sowhoishe? #wewillfindout #musclepharm #budlight", 
        "Team XYIENCE!!!!", 
        "If Mcgregor beats Diaz and goes after Lawler and wins I'm gonna quit my shitty job and college to pursue my passion. ", 
        "What's your passion?", 
        "Mine's interpretive dance!\n\nOh, you didn't ask me...", 
        "That's ok. I still care.", 
        "And cries of \"STOCKTON MOTHERF&$@ER\" and \"209\" came forth across the land.\n\nThese press conferences will be made into a Disney movie.", 
        "Nope. Maybe a Disney sub-brand, but the mouse don't do that kind of language.", 
        "https://www.facebook.com/josealdojunioroficial/photos/a.234855356567230.70115.202485699804196/1040805409305550/?type=3&theater\n\nlmao how is aldo gonna go an' put a load of this shit out there, and then refuse the fight?\n\nHe got the call.\n\nWhat a puss", 
        "He's not going to fight at 155 with not belt on the line. ", 
        "He shouldn't have said anything then.\n\nDude might as well retire now, embarrassing a f.", 
        "Actually he said anywhere anytime for the belt.  Fighting at 155 wouldn't be for the 145 belt.     ", 
        "pls fix your reading comprehension.", 
        "Lol no. He said that he would only fight for a belt but then he said the only exception to that would be a fight against Conor \"anytime, anywhere\".", 
        "Aldo has a 3 month medical suspension  so he could not even fight if he wanted to. He is out due to being ko'd. He should not put his health at risk. No one should, its bad enough these guys are going to be more messed up then NFL players. ", 
        "Exactly. Why didn't he take this fight? Only reason I can think of is that because of KO he still isn't allowed to fight.", 
        "ding ding , you are correct ", 
        "because two weeks notice, maybe? on top of the knockout.", 
        "WW makes sense though as it allows Conor to still fight for the 155 belt at 200 win or lose, since a loss to Nate @ 170 would honestly not be a big knock against him. It protects both Connor's legacy and the UFC, while Nate is a very small WW, so they're probably walking at similar enough weight (no less than 5-7 lbs difference atm I would think).\n\nStill as much as I hate the mcnuthuggers, God damn I have to give the guy some props for stepping up...", 
        "If I'm not mistaken, he has to defend the FW belt next as part of his deal to hold both simultaneously. ", 
        "I don't think that was ever the plan, as they were talking about the WW belt at 200. I'm thinking if he goes for LW at 200, he either then defends LW once or drops it right away... Should be interesting", 
        "At welter....yeah I'll take Diaz by submission. ", 
        "This was my first thought as well. Fuck taking Conor's left straight. Just has to get him down...", 
        "Anyone else think this may be an even better situation now for McGregor if he wins at 170lbs? If he beats Nate at 170, sets up UFC 200 vs. Lawler, then win or lose he's still got his Lightweight title fight with RDA after UFC 200. \n\nIf he was to fight RDA next week and lose, his Lawler fight would most likely be off (if it was ever a thing). Now he has another 2 potential fights that he may not have previously had?", 
        "Then Aldo and Frankie fight for Interim at 145..and Conor gets lined up for a shot at GSP.", 
        "I can't see Conor getting a welterweight shot off of this fight. But if he's dominant in this fight AND beats dos anjos at 155lbs later on in dominant fashion, then maybe I could see it. ", 
        "Dana was just talking about the Robbie fight on ESPN. Conor is prob already gonna headline ufc 200 so it makes sense to put on the biggest fight and forget RDA. I think they're obv hoping Conor can pull it off but also hoping they can get GSP to come out of retirement to try and shatter records if he does. ", 
        "I see a lot of you saying that it won't affect McGregor's path if he loses. \n\nI absolutely think it will. He is undefeated in the UFC. Can you imagine the shit talking that will ensue if he loses to Nate fucking Diaz? His image will be rocked.\n\n I don't think he gets the title fight if he loses. They'll probably give him Cerrone at 155 first. \n\nOn another note, Nate was in great shape his last fight. He's looking like a big 155er. I can't imagine the size difference we will see at 170 between him and Conor. This is such a fun fight!", 
        "Dumb, no offense. He's doing the company a solid here, fighting for no belt for no reason at a 2-tiered higher weight class, only to save the pay-per-view (& get a check and honor his flying fans). Conor's still the reigning 145er, and gets first crack at 155 if he so wishes. He made the cover of Sports Illustrated today, and is the biggest star the sport's ever had save Ronda's female novelty.", 
        "I guess you're right. I just remembered the ridiculous run Sonnen had with title fights.", 
        "come on look what happened to Ronda's legacy after she lost. ", 
        "For the title, with three months to prepare. There is nothing at stake here on short notice, essentially just a fun fight to make some money. If he loses, a little bit of a hit, but not much. Even Ronda is still a massive star.", 
        "Stockton Vs Dublin! Let the wolf ticket sales commence! ", 
        "STOCKTON MOTHERFUCKER!!!!", 
        "So Conor should easily tear thru Nate but my dislike of Conor makes me want Nate to pull off some crazy upset some how! Some way!", 
        "Fuck yeah! Stockton! Nate's gunna slap the shit out of McG", 
        "Would be fucking CRAZZYYYYY if Diaz gets the W\n\nHoly shit", 
        "I'm a huge McGregor fan but STOCKTON MOTHERFUCKER. WAR DIAZ LETS FUCKING GO.", 
        "My body is ready.", 
        "The trash talk between the two of them is just going to be fucking epic...", 
        "This is great news following the injury and lets not forget that RDA only out 6 weeks so that match could possibly be moved to UFC 200 and be a superfight (maybe biggest superfight in history??) ", 
        "+/u/User_Simulator /u/buffalozbrown ", 
        "That's really neat. Mine was mildly MMA related:\n\n>Oh, absolutely, I was hoping that they would never tell someone not to spend way too much in Yoel's favor with the Kimbo. If it was the photographer for the rest of the ball teleport into the rod while they swore the Oaths.", 
        "Yeah Crawford did a great outlet for me on mobile.\n\n ~ buffalozbrown\n\n-----\n\n[^^Info](https://github.com/trambelus/UserSim) ^^| [^^Subreddit](/r/User_Simulator)", 
        "Ehh, it was worth a shot.", 
        "Fuck, [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/User_Simulator/comments/42wbzh/simulation_megathread_post_your_simulation/d0bmccn?context=3) would've been perfect.", 
        "Samurai Mac ", 
        "How much McGregor weigh right now?", 
        "McGregor is gonna have a TON of power", 
        "Can we please mic'd em both up during the fight", 
        "I wonder if Nate will try to slap Conor to rile him up and destroy his mental game", 
        "I'm glad Nate will make some money.", 
        "Nate cannot fucking complain after this, he's getting the biggest fight of his life AND it's at 170, the opportunity of a lifetime.\n\nMcgregor is a crazy motherfucker, already a legend in my eyes.", 
        "Steak-fed, full energy mystic mac is going to go a long time.", 
        "Conor by ko", 
        "I don't know if I've ever been more excited for a weigh-in/staredown in my life!", 
        "Stockton Slap V. Celtic Cross", 
        "I'm actually just as happy for this fight than I was for RDA.", 
        "I might have bought the PPV for RDA vs Conor.  I was truly debating it.\n\nNow? Pssh, no brainer.  This should be fun.", 
        "Cleganebowl?", 
        "GET HYPE", 
        "I don't see Nate winning.", 
        "Neither I. Should be a great fucking fight though, yea?", 
        "Yes. Conor is a beast but there's always a chance for an upset ", 
        "I definitely see the fans winning", 
        "This is the first time i feel mcgregor will be facing an opponent who is unaffected mentally going into the first round. Cant wait to see what shenanigans both bring to the press conference. ", 
        "WAR 209", 
        "STOCKTON\n", 
        "[I really hope we get this](https://deaznutz.files.wordpress.com/2015/12/diaz-double-finger.gif)", 
        "Lmao would be epic", 
        "The fact we are so pumped about Nate vs McGregor proves that RDA doesn't have star power IMO.", 
        "People who are bashing Nate really need to check out his last fight with Michael Johnson. Nate Looked amazing. \n\nAlso from a stats view McGregor has had a  reach advantage, which helps his counter punching style, no longer the case against Nate.\n\nit is a nice match up for sure. \n\nThe big question is the time to get ready for a match.\nNate's cardio (he competes in Ironman for fun in his off time) isnt a concern to me just working on key elements.\n\nhe also has sparred against his brother for years so the left handed issue is less pronounced.\n\nThe biggest issue is if Conor gets in Nate's face at a conference and gets cracked. Nate does not play that shit.\n", 
        "All of your insights were on-point.", 
        "Sorry but Diaz reach / boxing technique is gonna be a real problem for McGregor in this one.  But this is one hell of a fight to make.", 
        "Diaz by Triangle. ", 
        "Great fight! War 209, I hope Diaz slaps him win or lose. Glad Cowboy isn't going to get smashed", 
        "I hope McGregor looks like lesnar and a spider monkey were fused together and he KOs Diaz after 3 rounds ", 
        "I don't give him 3, McG by KO in 2\n", 
        "Nate is the only guy that i would want to derail Conor", 
        "I'm so confused this time around... I love seeing Conor win because he is becoming an mma legend that will be talked about for years. If he demolishes his way to the 170 division and takes the belt somehow can you imagine what that would be like? All hell would break loose...\nThen on the other hand I have my boy Nathan on his comeback for the title after problems with the UFC...\nIM GOING CRAZY", 
        "Man... Nate's gonna get destroyed.", 
        "How can you dislike Conor at this point? 170, jesus.", 
        "I dislike conor still. I can respect him, he's a phenomenal fighter. Crazy for going to 170. Knocked out aldo in record time, he's amazingly good. \n\nJust not a fan. But I think he wins this", 
        "Ha, Fox Sports sticking it to Sportscenter", 
        "Holy shit, this is fucking awesome\n", 
        "I know this is less significant in terms of actual fight quality/merit, but I'm more excited for this. This is going to be fucking INSANE if both guys live up to their past and actually do their taunting in the cage.", 
        "Fox beat Dana's big announcement he wanted to do himself. ", 
        "Conor's crazy for accepting this fight..Oh well, bring it on \n", 
        "Feel most the salty man right now is Michael Johnson.", 
        "Win or lose for Diaz, this is going to go a long way for him.", 
        "Lol if Diaz finishes what Mendes and Aldo couldn't do.", 
        "I will eat a shoe ", 
        "Jesus Christ let there be a press conference where we can watch Dana try and break up a brawl between Diaz camp and mcgreggors lol", 
        "I seriously don't know what is going to happen when they face off... If Conor screams in his face, Diaz might try to hit him.", 
        "This is not enough time for all the potential next level shit talk and head games!", 
        "Oh fuck yes!   This is the best news I have ever heard in my life. This is the fight I wanted to see in the first place and I hope that Nate doesn't get KO'd like a little bitch in the first thirteen seconds.", 
        "The testicles on these guys are going to make up 150lbs of the 170 alone, fuck.", 
        "u/fightsgoneby \n\nWe need you to break this shit down ASAP!", 
        "I won't touch any fight until we're a week out and I know that the fight will be going ahead!", 
        "Haha! I hadn't thought of that... Must be frustrating for you.\n\nI certainly appreciate the effort though! ", 
        "and they're fighting at 170 DAMN", 
        "I sort of could visualize Conor holding 2 belts after beating Dos Anjos but does anyone think he has a chance in Robbie's division? I mean Lawler, McDonald, Wonderboy, Hendricks etc... I can't see him beat those guys. I think he has a very good chance versus Nick though.", 
        "no way he beats Nick.  Maybe Nate but not Nick", 
        "I see him beating all of them except maybe Thompson. Better skills, better athleticism than all, except maybe for Rory Mac's jits and Wonderboy's kicks.", 
        "Don't be a retarded fanboy. ", 
        "You're one of those guys who doubted him from the start. Weight classes are overrated, even someone like L. Thomas is beginning to think so. Age of the striker, not the lay and prayer.", 
        "Lawler,McDonald,Wonderboy,Hendricks or Condit would wreck Conor. I don't doubt Conor anymore,I'm being realistic.  ", 
        "See, I won't say that until I see what Conor can do at that weight. He's always been more about precision than power, timing than speed. If he can keep that going it would negate a great deal of weight advantage.", 
        "Precision and timing will only get you so far against people who are willing to stand up. Watch RDA vs Khabib and see how many strikes they exchanged. They mostly grappled. When you're at that weight,wrestling plays a major part. And Conor doesn't have the strength to knockout top WW's because it has been proven they can take hits much powerful and clean than Mc'Gregor can hit. ", 
        "Why? Conor isn't that much smaller than any of them, but he's more skilled and athletic than them all. Dunno why a tiny bit of size advantage equals \"wrecking\".", 
        "Experience,strength,conditioning and ground game matters too. I won't call him skilled than all of them just because of his unorthodox boxing. That is all we've seen of him. Either  counter punches or the left cross and the same spinning thrust kick. And I wouldn't say he's more athletic seeing how a 5'6\" Chad easily took down Conor and he could not even prevent it. Hendricks alone will ragdoll and smother him to death. ", 
        "Why does everyone forget that Conor's knee was messed up in that Chad fight? It also ripped halfway through the Holloway fight and he ground that one out for a win. Watching Thompson destroy Hendricks, I don't know how you think Hendricks grinds Conor down. From an athletic and, yes, movement standpoint, I'm uber-impressed with Conor, and am underwhelmed by Rory, Lawler, and Hendricks. I at the very least reject the notion that just because someone has a little extra weight and can grind on someone that they'd destroy Conor. It's just too simplistic of a read IMO.", 
        "Nate Diaz is going to submit Conor after slapping him around for a little bit. ", 
        "Ima fight your fucking ass. Congrats Diaz. Best of luck to you. ", 
        "Nate is 6\"0 - 76\" reach. McGregor trying to answer the size question here.", 
        "This will be decided on the mat.  ", 
        "Do we get Paul Daley moment from Nate??", 
        "Will Nate see some of that sweet sweet PPV money?", 
        "Can he possibly pass the drug test for thc a week and a half out? ", 
        "depends on the allowed thc level and the type of drug test. if they do like a mouth swab for weed he only has to not smoke the night before the test to be certain. Or if its still a piss test and the level is raised he could pass via having a very low body fat count. THC is stored in your fat cells so people who are very active and have a low body fat % can piss clean quicker than lazy slobs like me. ", 
        "My buddy stopped smoking for a week and passed. We're heavy smokers too", 
        "We should be taking bets on which of them will use the phrase \"baby nuts\" first.", 
        "FUCK YES", 
        "There it is. Thank fuck for the Diaz brothers. ", 
        "For the love of god can both fighters be mic'd up, and live the entire fight?", 
        "I like Nick but Nate is just so fucking punch drunk it hurts. Conor will roast him and Nate will just stare at him until after the press conference when Nick explains to him that Conor insulted him, then he'll get mad.", 
        "170 is a smart move for everyone. If Conor loses it doesn't compromise the shot at the 155 belt.", 
        "It does though.", 
        "I think it compromises 170. If Conor loses I reckon he still gets a shot at RDA. ", 
        "I hope they turn the mic's up inside the cage for this fight. ", 
        "I couldn't be happier about this ", 
        "At WW I feel like we're getting a preview of how fighters would do with some serious weight cutting rules put in place", 
        "It's at 170 too...oh shit!!", 
        "I think Conor is going to be sluggish . ", 
        "Why? He's not really cutting any weight.", 
        "FUCK YES", 
        "I didn't realize how excited this fight would make me, FUCK YEAH!", 
        "SWAGGER VS SWAGGER\n\nI DON'T KNOW WHO TO ROOT FOR\n\nOR WHAT TO DO WITH MY HANDS\n\nOR WITH MY THROBBING ERECTION", 
        "Stockton slap for days! ", 
        "I just wish that there was a longer press lead up", 
        "It's red panty night in the 209...", 
        "Major respect for Conor for fighting at 170. This is fucking epic. But I'm guessing no interim belt will be earned? Since it's not a 155", 
        "Not a huge MMA follower. Could someone explain why this is a huge deal? Some backstory might help. ", 
        "Nate Diaz is a fan favorite due to his in cage taunting of opponents, the way he talks and ultimately the way he fights. ", 
        "they are both huge shit talkers", 
        "Mouth vs Mouth.\n\nWhat a cryin' shame that they only have two weeks to build this up. I'm sure if you let them cause a twitter war it might help, but so much media hype has been lost.", 
        "The bookies have Connor at 1.28 (-350) and Nate 3.75 (+275)\n\n", 
        "How do you prepare for Conor within a few days? This is nuts, even if he does pull off this miracle where do we go from there? RDA is going to annihilate Diaz. If Conor beats Diaz we're back to where we were again. Kind of pointless.", 
        "I'm excited for this fight and I'm glad it's happening.  But I think Conor's hubris might finally catch up to him on this. \n\nHe is a featherweight.  He was going up to lightweight to challenge the champ.  Kudos to him for that.  But now he's going to let Diaz fight at 170!?  I commend him for being ballsy, but 8 think that was a mistake.  He should have told Diaz that he had to make 155.  \n\nIf Nate didn't think it was possible, there are plenty of other great contenders like Anthony Pettis that could.  The bottom line is the Nate was begging for this fight.  If he really wanted it, I would make him work for it. \n\n\nConor is a more talented, faster, more polished striker than Nate, and he's got one punch KO power that Nate does not have.   But Nate is going to be a lot bigger and more dangerous on the ground.   Letting him be *even bigger* is a huge mistake in my opinion. ", 
        "It was Conor who wanted Nate , that was his first choice.   \n\nIt was Conor who said make it at 170 ", 
        "man, this is going to be the fight of the year!", 
        "1.3k comments on this thread and I've read all of them. So excited for this scrap. ", 
        "Thanks to Conor, Nate n' Nick gonna' buy a whole lotta' reefer. ", 
        "YES!!!!!", 
        "So we are gonna have a fight with fist and with words... Wish the UFC put the mikes lower so we can hear everything. \n", 
        "holy shit.  I still dont like conor but damn i cant not respect him", 
        "I've never really been a fan of the trash talking in MMA. It all feels so staged and unnecessary.\n\nHaving said that, get these two in front of a camera...like NOW!!!", 
        "lol exactly. I want to see each and every one of their verbal duels before the actual match.", 
        "The way Nate fights, we're going to see if he can take McGregors left.  So much hype", 
        "In McGregors last three fights, two of his opponents have had less than 2 weeks to get ready.", 
        ". . and? Conor doesn't have 2 weeks to get ready as well?", 
        "He's been  training for a 5 round fight for a least 2 months.  Daiz is getting less than 10 days ", 
        "It's not like he chose to give his opponents 2 weeks. \n\nWould you rather him not fight at 189 and 196?", 
        "After Aldo dropped out at 189 McGregor refused to fight unless there was a interim belt on the line. As for UFC 196 there is NO belt or interim belt being mentioned.  I'm actually not sure why he's even agreeing to fight Diaz.  He challenged RDA because RDA had a belt.  Diaz does not have a belt so a win only means he beat top ten 155 pounder whom he meet at 170. I'm not saying it's not going to a interesting match up.  But a win does not get him what he stated his goal was.", 
        "I also found it interesting that McGregor actually took this fight since there will be no belt on the line.", 
        "Diaz is fresh out of camp, still in great shape. ", 
        "Inb4 Diaz blows a vocal chord trash talking and has to pull out.", 
        "Interesting.  Nate is also a southpaw like Conor.  Nate also has a two inch reach advantage over him.  I think the biggest advantage Conor has in this fight is sidekicks to the front of the knee.", 
        "I actually see Diaz's style being a harder one for McGregor. Conor tends to rely on his opponents overcommitting and Nate doesn't really ever commit to strikes. The stockton slap is even more pronounced in Nate than in Nick. Still giving it to Conor, but not a 13 second fight...", 
        "With the way Nate has fought the last few years just gonna be a punching bag for Conor.  I hope I'm wrong.", 
        "I wonder if Conor will be the first to make fun of Nate's lisp?", 
        "We need a Robin Black breakdown. ", 
        "#FlimFlam", 
        "Conor bless.\n\nHe's probably the best champion we'll have in the ufc in regards to fan satisfaction. He's fighting everyone at every weight\n\nRealistically, it's just bad ass he's not waiting around for RDA to heal up. He took another fight at a higher weight, bad ass", 
        "Fuck yes, DON'T BE SCARED HOMIE! Diaz 1st round sub.", 
        "close", 
        "My fear is that Diaz is taking the fight just for the payday but will show up and not perform, like he did awhile ago when he had a bad leg, don't remember the opponent though. ", 
        "I'm just going to leave this here because I don't know where else to put it, but apparently Mitch Gagnon is fighting McGregor at some point. \n\nSounds weird and wrong but there's some fuckery going on with matchups IMO, maybe we'll come back to this comment in a year and be blown away.", 
        "Nate Diaz by submission calling it now", 
        "world would implode. would love.", 
        "Conor McGregor by round 1 KO.", 
        "Connor McGregor is batshit crazy and I fucking love it", 
        "[AS A 209 NATIVE](http://i.giphy.com/8w7efnu1zAaoo.gif) ", 
        "That dude gonna die ", 
        "The fight is at 170 so Nate has that going for him too", 
        "I have never liked either of the Diaz brothers.  I know they are popular to people, but I've always disliked the classless shit talker attitude.  It will be strange rooting for Nate Diaz.  ", 
        "At welterweight! Interesting. \n\nConor big favourite imo\n\nAnd it remains the main event. I'm not a fan of that part, seems like an unnecessary disrespect to Holly. But I do respect Nate stepping up for a 5 rounder, of indeed this will be 5 rounds (which it should be if it's keeping the ME spot) ", 
        "You don't put the biggest moneymaker in the business on the B-side of a main event card.", 
        "I'll be in the cold hard ground the day mcgregor is under miesha tate (on the card)", 
        "Not really. They still have a champion headlining the event even if a belt is not on the line.", 
        "No way. It would way more disrespect to Conor to knock him down to co-main, not to mention he wouldn't accept it in a million years. \n\nConor is the UFC's top dog by a massive margin at the moment. His buzz is absolutely insane. ", 
        "I just want to see Connor get Stockton slapped", 
        "Am I the only one who thinks this is a risky time-waster. I would've pulled Conor from the card, eaten shit on the PPV revenues and done this right when RDA was ready. I want to see history not some quick-fix BS. ", 
        "This is going to be a fight. Nate Diaz has his hands full with McGregor, but Conor has his hands full too with Nate's aggressive boxing style. If it gets to the ground, Nate has credentials to submit McGregor fairly easy. Also McGregor can take a punch, but Diaz can take a beating. With all this being said, STOCKTON MOTHERFUCKER.", 
        "McGregor is fucked", 
        "RIP the hype train when Diaz submits Conor.", 
        "Doesn't really sound that believable coming from a Dada 5000 fan", 
        "It would take a few losses for the Conor hype train to derail. ", 
        "While it's *highly* unlikely, could imagine the shitstorm if Diaz wins?", 
        "Diaz by triangle 2:03 second round.", 
        "Don't you mean 2:09?", 
        "Mother fucker", 
        "Normally I'd be happy to see Conor dropped on his ass, but he's taking a fight at 170?  I can't knock him for that.", 
        "I hope Conor gets Stockton slapped.", 
        "The stare down is going to be amazing!  Conor always says he sees weakness when he looks into the guy's eyes, but I don't think Diaz is going to show any weakness...  Diaz told his girl to break out the red panties.  ", 
        "Like or hate McGregor, the fact he was scheduled to fight at Lightweight and is allowing a Welterweight replacement, the guy is brave.", 
        "AND said he'd take two title contenders at 145 on 2 weeks notice.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I don't think that's possible unless they both could make the weight.", 
        "Kinda weird that a non title fight is the main event and a title fight is the co main event.\n\nThough, I can understand why and you can sell it as Conor is the champ so it shouldn't make that much difference since it is potentially a superfight?", 
        "rt'po;g.kljTGwer9;876t3w6tiuy", 
        "[When I realized this fight was at WW](https://gfycat.com/RealGraciousKittiwake)", 
        "Awesome fight, glad Edgar or Aldo didn't accept. Have to wonder why this wasn't the UFC's first choice. Nate is no walkover, he's always improving and his subs are dangerous. RDA couldn't finish him but we'll see if Conor can. I don't expect much trash talk, Conor gave Nate red panty night (much deserved and hope he gets PPV points for this) and accepted at 170lbs. Both guys are fans of each other's style. In the ring though, there will be \"Bitch\"es and \"Isat aww yew gowt?\"s with crazy taunting. Solid save. Conor to UFC 200 vs Lawler if he pulls this off.", 
        "waking up to this.. I am so hard right now.", 
        "UFC 209", 
        "Just like Nate looked slower at 170 when he fought McDonald compared to Lightweight i think the same will happen to McGregor, should even up the playing field. DIAZ for the win. ", 
        "McGregor's not a speed based fighter though. Timing beats speed, precision beats power.", 
        "I agree it will be a major problem for Nate however if he can keep his range it could mean being out of the hitting range . Diaz needs to go to the ground rather than playing battle of the boxers. ", 
        "His wrestling isn't great. That's been a problem for him and Nick over the years. They are good standing, and amazing on the ground, but not very good at controlling where the fight takes place. On the other hand Nate doesn't over commit and has cardio for days... I think Conor takes it but I think it's closer than most people make it out to be.", 
        "McGregor is known for his speed. I too think McGregor will be sluggish. \n\nMcGregor has a lot going against him in this fight. ", 
        "Diaz and his little \"tough\" guy bitch face is going to get knocked the fuck out.", 
        "Fuck yeah", 
        "hearing conor mcgregor go on about how much he makes vs. how much the other guys make is getting really old. \"i tip your wages\"... shut the fuck up, man, no one cares and it has nothing to do with anything. he brings it up every time he talks trash to any other fighter.", 
        "Yeah, this is probably what made me wonder if he really is an overblown jerk.  Losing will be good for Conor and he'll grow from this experience.", 
        "entire thread of mcgreggor fans talking about how he \"manned up\" and how \"real\" and brave and shit he is for making it 170. He's physically as big or bigger than Nate Diaz, and Nate is not known for his power and has less than 2 weeks to prepare. wtf", 
        "Save this: Nate finishes Conor.", 
        "WHERE IS THE TRASH TALK THREAD? CAUSE I WANNA ARGUE HOW NATE IT'S GONNA STOCKTON SLAP THE SHIT OUT OF CONOR.", 
        "This fight will go all five rounds.", 
        "Nate is going to do his stupid fucking RJJ arm spread, lean his head in once, and get knocked the fuck out. ", 
        "LOL @ everybody hugging McGregor's nuts in this thread.\n\nYou do realize that Nate Diaz is not even in RDA's league, so it's an infinitely easier fight for CM, no matter what the weight?\n", 
        "Can't wait for the guy who's won 2 of his last 5 fights to fight against an undefeated (in the ufc) UFC champion.", 
        "He's not undefeated.", 
        "fixed", 
        "Two full weight classes above his division. ", 
        "So much fucking respect to mcgregor. Could have just waited it out. Not only does he take the fight, but at 170 to make it easier on nate?! Legend. No excuses. No bullshit. Shows up no matter what. Take notes. The champ is fuckin here.", 
        "Makes it easier on himself too, doesn't have to cut. ", 
        "The dude was cutting to 145 before.  It would be easy either way for him. ", 
        "the end of mcgregor... crying away.", 
        "Nate Diaz isn't in his prime anymore. Conor deserved a better matchup: if he wins he will prove nothing and a loss against a weaker opponent would be a terrible blow to his career. He should pull out and wait for a title fight.", 
        "I'm not sure if it would be a terrible blow to his career if Conor loses, I mean he's not an undefeated fighter like Ronda was and Conor is pretty crazy jumping up to welterweight when he was prepping for a LW fight, I think it'd hurt him a little but not quite the terrible blow you are saying. Of course this is all implying that Nate can even win. ", 
        "He's undefeated in the UFC. I agree Conor McGregor has nothing to win in this fight.", 
        "He has nothing tangible to gain from it, but it will further cement the fact that Conor always shows up and beats anyone who is set in front of him.", 
        "I think Conor has the chance to prove himself against a larger opponent and that he is able to fight at welterweight, giving legitimacy to his claim about taking the welterweight title. Like I know it's not ideal, pretty disappointed we miss out on the RDA fight but on such short notice this is the best we've got. ", 
        "But now he doesn't have to cut any weight so maybe it works in his favor?", 
        "It's possible, who really knows though, jumping 2 weight classes is just insane. Can't wait to see how it turns out. ", 
        "That's not how it works. Either men can be the better fighter that night. ", 
        "Let the trash talk begin!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "dude its at 170", 
        "Won't be since it's a WW fight instead of LW", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "One dude shitposted a few minutes after 11 saying Dana announced it'd be Lawler v. McGregor and I about had a coronary", 
        "I'm so down for the smack talk.", 
        "Dammit Sportcenter!!", 
        "LETS GO hope he in good shape", 
        "Finally...the wait is over. Let the shit talking begin. ", 
        "Welterweight? Fucking crazy. ", 
        "At welterweight? Wow", 
        "LET THE SHIT TALKING BEGIN!", 
        "welterweight holy shit", 
        "Damn at 170 lbs too.", 
        "Holy shit", 
        "The fuckin top with ya", 
        "Leggo!", 
        "Have to respect Conor, with his willingness to go up to 170. Will be an interesting fight, but I don't see Diaz taking this one, still hoping for an exciting fight nonetheless.", 
        "Diaz is going to weigh 190 on fight night. That's a big fucking guy.", 
        "Cake-fed Conor ladies and gentleman. ", 
        "To the front page!", 
        "McGregor by KO late 2nd round. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No wonder McGregor looks like a crazed schizo when he cuts to 145.", 
        "LMFAO this had me rolling ", 
        "1 fucking 70", 
        "OMG I'm actually MORE excited now! Thank you mma gods!", 
        "170 pounds? Conor on that horse meat son", 
        "anyone else read that in Brendan Schaubs voice?", 
        "I typed it in Schaubs voice, help me ", 
        "Connor is only reason I could ever find myself tuning into Sportscenter ", 
        "Will be interesting to see what the betting line for this will be. Conor huge favorite I would imagine.", 
        "So my guess if Conor wins he won't want the RDA fight but instead he lawler fight ", 
        "Yeah that checks out", 
        "I am so excited to see the amount of shit talk these two fighters can fit in before their fight. I love both fighters, but I think Mac will win!", 
        "I wonder if Diaz took less money to fight at Welterweight since there were talks about how the offer supposedly wasn't enough for Diaz to cut to 155 in two weeks notice.", 
        "Flim Flam wins", 
        "HOLY FUCK!!!!", 
        "OMG!! Diaz vs Conor lmao! This fight will be insane and it's at 170!", 
        "Mods, update the flairs please!", 
        "Added \"Team 209, WHAT\"", 
        "Sick. I want McGregor to win and keep the hype going but I just gotta have the 209 flair on me.", 
        "Never changing my flair again", 
        "FUCK. YES. ", 
        "I like how neither will really be cutting weight", 
        "It's happening!!!!!!!", 
        "Not the biggest McGregor fan, but so much respect to him for fighting at 170.", 
        ":D", 
        "Is it main eventing over a title fight?", 
        "HELL FUCKING YEA!", 
        "Nate Diaz's record is sketchy as hell. 19-10, 1 fight win streak. ", 
        "My body is ready.", 
        "138 comments in 9 mins! Dang!!! ", 
        "Anyone want to speculate Why this will be at 170?  Is this so both fighters won't really have to cut weight? ", 
        "Fuck yes. Nate by submission.", 
        "I don't know what to say. ", 
        "HYPE", 
        "This fight is gonna be donkey balls insane.", 
        "The one thng we can take away from this announcement is when Conor says he will fight anybody he fucking means it. So refreshing to hear and actually be demonstrated. CANT FUCKING WAIT!", 
        "''Hello? Yes, is this American airlines? How fast can I get on a flight to Stockton, California?''\n\n- Jeff Novitsky", 
        "I can't wait for the face off. ", 
        "http://strawpoll.me/6904885\n\nJust wanna see what everyone is thinking right after the announcement!", 
        "*Ron Paul ITS HAPPENING GIF*", 
        "So CmcG at 170... Basically he just skips his weight cut and we get full grown grass-fed steak Conor?\n\n Is Diaz normally this big also?", 
        "Cardio and pads for two weeks full stomach conor ", 
        "Here we fucking go!!!!! Pumped!!!", 
        "Is Nate gonna be wearing the red panties now?", 
        "How long after the fight is announced will betting lines be made?", 
        "That means if he can't get below 160 he is out of shape damm. Still gonna be a good fight regardless", 
        "Do we know if it's the main event, or if Holm/Tate is?", 
        "Championship is always the main. Now that it's dropped it's gonna be the ladies.", 
        "That's what I figured, but wanted to confirm.", 
        "Really? Holm/Tate will headline? I know it's a championship bout, but figured McGregor would still headline the event. ", 
        "[Apparently not.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UFC_196) It's bullshit if it goes on last, though.", 
        "I don't think they'd pull Conor from headlining, even though it's not a title fight. Purely from a promotional standpoint. ", 
        "I would be surprised if they pulled McG from the top spot", 
        "I'm satisfied. ", 
        "Glad to see a fighter who fights,", 
        "What is life?  What is reality?", 
        "i hope this fight makes it more than 2 rounds! ", 
        "ariel helwani just tweeted they are gonna fight at welterweight is this ture???", 
        "Yes", 
        "First of all, this is the best solution.  Let them both go without a weight cut.  This will help Diaz, who may not be in fighting shape, at least he won't be dealing with a grueling weight cut on top of it.\n\nSecond, could we potentially see Conor skip the 155 belt, since RDA may or may not be ready for UFC 200, and possibly see Conor/Lawler at 200?  That would be my dream come true.  Conor does need to try and snatch belts up quickly, since 145 can't wait for him forever, and that weight cut is looking to be less and less feasible.  ", 
        "I wanted to see Cowboy so bad. :[", 
        "Incoming Nate didn't have a full camp in 3...2...1... But seriously props to these guys for stepping up and if it weren't for the double title possibility this might actually be a more interesting fight? Has a division jump ever gone down like this before? ", 
        "This is WAY more hype than RDA", 
        "Remember when women's bantamweight was the best thing in all of human existence?", 
        "TBH I preferred Cerrone but when I think of the trash talking level inside and outside the cage that we are going to have... it gives me chills. I love it!", 
        "\"Make it 170. Tell him to get comfortable.\" that's quite scary ", 
        "People seems excited for trash talk... Nate isnt very good at it outside the cage. Inside could be fun, but i have conor winning this in the first. So i dont see much trash talk happening.... Or whatever.", 
        "Conor is the man for taking this fight but I want to see him against a fucking machine like RDA not a one dimensional fighter like Diaz. I love Nate but this is a much more favorable match up for Conor and it won't surprise me at all if he wins. ", 
        "Hey now. Nate is at LEAST two dimensional", 
        "Not even my animes are this good.", 
        "Woot. Never thought we would see this tbh. I love Nate but Conor Rd. 2 KO.", 
        "SO MUCH YES", 
        "my body is ready", 
        "Endless shit talking, press conference, multiple embeddeds, weigh ins, during the fight. I cannot wait! \ud83d\ude02", 
        "My god. Nate talking mad trash to Conor right after his win last December provided me this WILD dream that he'd actually fight him. It'll be Nate's very own version of Nick fighting Anderson. A couple months later and you're telling me it IS HAPPENING? Holy shit. I already forgot about RDA LOL. ", 
        "I was so bummed but now im even more excited!!! ", 
        "Everything about this right now is awesome. I don't even care about the fight right now, just get me Diaz and Conor at a press conference. Plus at welterweight, this is incredible.", 
        "Imagine the trash talking if there was more time leading up to the fight.", 
        "It's going to be great seeing these two verbally go at it. McGregor's x-factor in mental warfare isn't going to work against Nate, so it's going to be extremely interesting to see a game opponent (unaffected by the talk) square off. Bets on how many hands-in-the-air will be thrown between the two as they talk shit in the ring?\n\nBesides that, this is Conor's fight to lose. I'd give Nate the advantage on the ground, but I doubt he'll attempt any takedowns. Really wish he would though, since his jiujutsu is under-utilized and underrated. Besides that, IMO Conor has a wider array striking game.", 
        "Problem is Diaz has very poor takedown skills. He can't get someone down, although he's a wizard if they take the fight there. Both the Diaz brothers have the issue of not being able to dictate where the fight goes. That's why they stand against strikers and roll against wrestlers.", 
        "RIP MGM grand garden arena", 
        "Praise be to our lord Odin all father, we are blessed to witness such spectacle! ", 
        "Dana is probably begging Conor to make the fight last at least 3 rounds. ", 
        "Perfect. \n\nNate is a good fighter who will try to make anything a test of will, but I honestly don't think he'll ever hold a belt, so we aren't wasting another contender on a very short notice fight.", 
        "Oh my god, I can't fucking believe it. I am see sawing between excited as hell and incredibly stressed out because I really like Nate", 
        "Both fighters always push forward, always advance and have their opponent back away or circle away.\n\nWhat happens when these guys meet in the octagon? Either one of them becomes the circling/backing counterpuncher or they exchange in the center until someone is finished.\n\nWho's going to move forward and who is going to be backed up, or is this going to be a very short fight with both rushing to the middle to exchange?", 
        "There's nobody in the world other than Nate that I wanted to get this spot. Except maybe kimbo. ", 
        "More importantly have they started talking shit yet?", 
        "Read the article:\n\n> \"Stop holding bitterness deep in your bum soul. Stuck on $20,000 to show and $20,000 to fight. I wipe my ass with that money. I tip your wage, Nate, yeah.\"", 
        "WHAAAT THE FUUUCK\n\nFirst I am hearing any of this.", 
        "at 170? Then why not Cowboy?", 
        "Because Cowboy just fought? ", 
        "eh, that's a stretch...", 
        "he was supposedly looking for a fight within the next month already.", 
        "Because Diaz is safer most likely, more popular with the fans from a trash-talking perspective, and frankly Cowboy has shown nerves and slow starts on too many recent fights.", 
        "I can't wait! Diaz hasn't fought on PPV since 2011, which was when he beat Cowboy, and now he headlines one of the biggest shows of the year. this sport is crazy.", 
        "I'm happy and sad at the same time. I'm happy that they put this together on short notice because it's a helluva fight. \n\nI'm sad because we essentially only get 11 days of shit talking between 2 of the biggest shit talkers. ", 
        "Diaz is done.", 
        "http://m.imgur.com/8rWSPVW", 
        "this is huge, Diaz has to be thinking he's got the advantage ", 
        "This is why I love this sport. Was crushed when I woke up for work to the news that the fights over and now less than 24 hours later I'm stupidly excited again. ", 
        "Yay finally the talking shit championship is going to be decided\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He could come in at 156 and compete if he wanted to. ", 
        "If they'd picked cerrone seeing its at 170lbs then nobody can use the chad mendes excuse but whatever im not complaining ", 
        "I'm so excited.", 
        "I felt like i died a little inside when i saw the news that RDA pulled out. This makes it a little better. Love me a Diaz fight", 
        "This is going to be even better than Rubio v. Cruz !", 
        "rubio fighting at bantamweight now?", 
        "If Benson was still around he might be fighting McGregor which would have been a huge pay day ", 
        "Which is why him leaving the company may be the dumbest thing he'll ever do. Then again, he was a safe champion with a kinda creepy/yelly Jesus personality thing (& I like Ben), while Nate is a safe and fun opponent for Conor on such short notice. After Friday nite, I'm sure Ben can't be happy being associated with that.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/5tKcK.gif", 
        "Put down the bong and pick up your gloves. Fuck yeah!", 
        "170?.. jesus", 
        "https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cb9Cu5zVAAE7Hfn.jpg:large", 
        "YESSSSS, McGregor vs Diaz for the interim welterweight title!!!!", 
        "Not interim... not sure if you're sarcastic or not...", 
        "Let the thrash talk begin.", 
        "McGregor got balls like a Bengali Tiger lads!", 
        "So what's the over/under on this fight and where to place bets?", 
        "How much you guys think nate is gonna make this fight? atleast 200k?", 
        "Are 12 days enough to really hype this fight with the trash talk?\n\n", 
        "mma gods hear my prayers and accept my offerings and sacrifices by not eating today.", 
        "This main event is a MOTHERFUCKER", 
        "Fuck that", 
        "SHUT UP AND TAKE MY MONEY", 
        "170 is a smart choice for both of them. they want a short notice fight but a loss for either wont hurt their rankings in there respective divisions. ", 
        "NINJA SHIT!!!!", 
        "Connor, by KO, Round 2, 22 seconds in.", 
        "This was awesome to read after a shitty shitty day of work. I really hope Nate starts some shit before the fight lol", 
        "After this he skips 205 too and mega-bulks straight to 230 - FatGregor vs Velasquez", 
        "CMcG against Dada 5000.", 
        "This fight makes so much more sense to me.  Conor must be more of a favorite vs Diaz than RDA.  Keep this train moving!  No need to jump in with RDA, or Frankie, until absolutely necessary.", 
        "No wolf tickets being sold here.", 
        "[Mercy for the Diaz Brothers!](https://youtu.be/oO1UCKQ2uJk)", 
        "Best news ive heard today ", 
        "Ah do all teh stuff dat counts and den I can what the fuck me likes an' no one can say I'm not the gamest fighter goin' roun'.", 
        "But this needed more time for trash talk!", 
        "Nasty nate. I don't watch mma much", 
        "So I guess post-fight callouts work. ", 
        "Soo pumped for this. It's like it's not going to be your normal fight RDA and Mcgregor would have been, this seems like it's going to be more of a fight show. Keeeen!", 
        "so.. a Diaz on two weeks notice.. there's just no way the weed is out of his system by then.. or maybe the new rules will make it so he passes?\n\nfuck. \n\nI HAVE NO IDEA WHAT IM FEELING RIGHT NOW. ", 
        "So I know Conor doesn't have a belt at that weight devision and neither does Diaz right? They are just figthing to see who is the best between them? Big fan of Conor and feel like Conor should take this, but if he loses I will be so sad :(", 
        "Well, somebody it's going to sleep. No, diphenhydramine needed. ", 
        "The only thing making this fight interesting is whether Diaz can take that left or not. We already know he's not gonna take Connor down, and Connor is too smart to take Nate down where he actually has a chance.", 
        "McGregor is insane!? Is Nate that took the fight with 2 weeks notice, with... McGregor. If Diaz is not in shape, it will be a Deja Vu for Conor. ", 
        "Nate is always in shape. If he passes a piss test is the big question.", 
        "> If Diaz is not in shape\n\nYou must be new to MMA if you worry about a Diaz not being in shape.", 
        "Really? I hope so. I'm not so much a Diaz fan but I hope he kicks McGregor ass.", 
        "Diaz runs marathons in between fighting. I think he'll be ok. And yes Conor is insane for fighting him at whatever weight Nate is right now.", 
        "I though that the marathon guy was Nick. Well, at least Nate is way superior in ground skills that McGregor.", 
        "It's decathlon, and it's both of them.", 
        "this is stupid as fuck", 
        "no mortal human can fathom the smack about to be talked ", 
        "OH MY.", 
        "YES ", 
        "The UFC got it right.  Get paid Nate", 
        "This moves my needle. ", 
        "Ooooooooooooh.  The shit talking is going to be noice.", 
        "Well....that's a good fight in place of RDA. Still excited.", 
        "Quick someone put a beak on the guy on the left! Making him look like a vulture", 
        "On paper wouldn't Nate win considering his taller and heavier? ", 
        "Connor going up two weight classes, and it's not like Nate is a scrub. I'd say Connor , skill-wise, is definitely better, but it wouldn't be crazy for Nate to take this win.\n\nConnor has a big frame for his weight class, bit come on, this is WW now.", 
        "**** yes. I can't wait for this fight.\n\n", 
        "I only hope Nate isn't being cornered by Gilbert Melendez....  worst corner ever!", 
        "Shields and Melendez GOAT corner.", 
        "So Conor on double portion steak for 2 weeks?", 
        "HYPE IS REAL FINGERBOWL CONFIRMED ", 
        "I had RDA winning against Connor, bit I got Connor in this one. And I wonder if they called Cerrone first.", 
        "Poor Holly.", 
        "Oh shit son, doso anjos  who? This is going to be a stellar fight!", 
        "This makes me root for Connor so much more him just being taking fights at any weight class. It's like how Cerrone will take a fight on short notice any time just makes you root for them. ", 
        "He's got the call for a red pantie day! He's gonna change his bum life! \n\n\n\nBut seriously, they both have amazing chins and like to bang - Hope it's a brutal slog fest. I cannot WAIT to watch, also, big ups to Conor for going to 170 for it too, much respect for him, GOAT. ", 
        "GOAT? Gtfo. ", 
        "I'm going to love watching Diaz get pounded into hamburger. Sadly I know it won't shut him up.", 
        "And they keep avoiding Frankie Edgar ", 
        "I think Edgar is injured. ", 
        "Yep... Frankie was offered the fight and turned it down because of injury", 
        "I always find fighters to be interesting in their exhibitions of hubris.\nGuaranteed, 9 times out of 10 a fighter will state they are monsters, animals, unbeatable, unstoppable etc etc etc. then some palooka comes along and knocks their block off and restarts that process.. It's hilarious how short sighted it has remained for all time.", 
        "/u/TommyToeHold must have had an insane boner when he heard the news. The Diaz Bro's & McGregor are basically the only videos I watch on he's channel.", 
        "It makes sense to go in at 170lbs, this will at least get him prepared for Robbie Lawler weight at UFC 200 and see how he stacks. \nThis is good for Robbie as well... gets to see how he reacts at 170lbs. ", 
        "Is it weird I am more excited about this than RDA? Its such a hilarious match up to me, the shit talking will be unreal.", 
        "no its normal. almost everyone likes this matchup more", 
        "Nate Diaz gets to call erm someone and say it's red panty night in the Diaz household? ", 
        "I'm not hating on Nate, love the guy and his fights, but I don't think he will beat McGregor. It will be entertaining as hell but I just don't see him beating McGregor unless somehow it goes down to the ground. I for see McGregor hunting for the WW and LW belt all this year if he gets through Nate. Dana going to grant his wishes and all of his wishes when he destroys Nate. ", 
        "GREAT GOOGLY MOOGLY ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yes", 
        "Im much more excited about this fight than vs Dos Anjos", 
        "With a win I expect Conor to move up to super heavyweight...", 
        "rather see this than the Dos Anjos match up! ", 
        "Rapid weight gain and loss is really really taxing on the body. Especially in terms of muscle.\n\nRoy Jones Jr. lost so much of his speed and agility when he did this, chasing Light Heavyweight glory, which he won but then it was the beginning of his end.\n\nThere are a lot of parallels here -- hope it doesn't have it.", 
        "life finds a way...", 
        "Fuck yes fuck yes fuck yes fuck yes FUCKING FUCK YES", 
        "Holy shit I'm just now getting back into MMA. Can't wait for this!!!", 
        "on Bovada McGregor -350; Diaz +265", 
        "What if McGregor ko's Diaz in the 1st?", 
        "What if Nate kos Mcgregor in the 1st ?", 
        "Wouldn't be as impressive imo. McGregor last fought at 145. To fight Diaz at 170 and win is very impressive let alone if he were to ko him. If he ko's Diaz, he's p4p number 1 imo. ", 
        "I dont think beating Diaz makes you the p4p number 1 lmao ", 
        "Beating Jose Aldo does though... I obviously meant the collection of work he is doing not just beating Diaz. ", 
        "no , I dont think beating aldo proves it yet.  he needs to have a nice collection of work in the UFC before he can get GOAT there are a lot of fighters who come out strong only to fade later on. Durability is a big thing for GOAT.   You are talking about GOAT  not best right now. ", 
        "I didn't say anything about GOAT. I agree with you there he's got a long way before calling him that. I'm saying he's p4p right now. ", 
        "even that. I think Jon Jones still earns that spot. ", 
        "Agree to disagree. My top 2 are Mighty Mouse and McGregor ", 
        "Keep in mind Diaz is a 155er so it's not the same as Conor fighting a true 170 fighter. ", 
        "True but Diaz has fought at 170 before and regardless it is quite the accomplishment if McGregor pulls it off. ", 
        "McGregor is the true definition of a champion.", 
        "Cd section jiu jitsu! ", 
        "Hey does anyone have the link to the promo in which no church in the wild is played? It was posted a while back", 
        "Do they have an idea on when Conor will defend the FW belt? I'm guessing it will be a while since they will probably reschedule the RDA fight if/when he beats Diaz.", 
        "my guess is that RDA will need to heal then rehab so the fight might get pushed out past the defense of the FW belt. its hard since its definitely a money thing and if he loses at any point then the balloon deflates", 
        "can't wait for tommy toe hold ", 
        "Even though I'm excited for this, I can't help but worry about Conor since he's made so much gains and I don't think he could compete well at featherweight anymore. If he goes up and down a lot it can't be good for his body. I recommend he stay at lightweight. ", 
        "Testing out this fancy new flair. STOCKTON, HOMIE. ", 
        "Team McGregor, all the way.", 
        "Fuck yes! This is the best replacement possible. Should be a very entertaining fight. Can't wait to see/hear the shit talking and antics in the cage, haha.", 
        "I may be in the minority but I feel as though the trash talk is going to be meh. McGregor will come through and do his thing and Nate will just be dropping f bombs and saying he'll kick his ass. It's going to be like Cruz/Dillashaw all over again. ", 
        "Conor should just fight both the Diaz bros the same night ", 
        "lol\n", 
        "I just want to see the bigger mouth go down. Don't matter who wins.", 
        "I was really looking forward to thlat title fight. ", 
        "I can't wait to see Conor at 205.", 
        "RIP in peace Nate", 
        "NATE DIAZZ", 
        "I could not be more excited. The 2 most legit shit talkers in the UFC goin at it", 
        "I wanted to see Mcgregor vs Werdum. ", 
        "This fight is epic. Conor by to spinning back kick or whatever he wants", 
        "This is the difference between Floyd and Connor. Connor takes the fights fans want to see, no bullshit! Sick of some boxing fans saying people like Connor more because he's white, get the fuck out a here!", 
        "The look on Nate's face says he is there for the money, and knows he's going to take a beating. ", 
        "lol", 
        "Is this the first time a non title fight is the main event with a title fight on the card?", 
        "Excited about Nate and the amount of nice shit hes gonna buy with that pay check", 
        "Break out the red panties Nick we've done it. ", 
        "Damn thud gonna be a good ass fight red panty night for both dudes nate Diaz fought for this shit conor stolr.it from him who gonna win got conor McGregor hot nice big balls 170lbs hope Diaz ate a lot of steak cause McSexy gonna pound him into ground Diaz and server him", 
        "is this English?", 
        "The fuck did you even say? Pretty much all I could gather from your car wreck of grammar is that you want to blow McGregor's balls. ", 
        "I read this in Kimbo's voice and I appreciated that", 
        "lol who is downvoting this ", 
        "Your autocorrect is really weird. ", 
        ">>got conor McGregor hot nice big balls\n\nwhat the fuck am I reading", 
        "My favorite quote:\n\n\n\n>hope Diaz ate a lot of steak cause McSexy gonna pound him into ground", 
        "This is the shittiest shitpost I've seen in some time, well done. ", 
        "Shit fight. Pettis would have been a way better choice, or even Cerrone who is actually in fighting shape. Diaz is going to get trashed. This will look like Anderson x Diaz but worse\n\nWith all the shit talking the Diaz bros do on the UFC and their constant thuggish behaviour I cant believe they are still getting fights like this", 
        "Am I the only one who thinks this will be tough for McGregor? Diaz isn't the strongest guy but damn. This fight concerns me. Kind of crazy. \n\nI hope McGregor knocks him out! ", 
        "Same feeling, I could see an upset here. McGregor is undoubtedly talented but there is a large potential for holes we have not yet seen in his game. His only two top-tier fights were to Mendes who took the fight on short notice and Aldo who got KO'd in 13s. Diaz may not have had a full camp but he is rarely out of near-peak cardiovascular form. He will show up in shape and hungry. ", 
        "The crazy thing is apparently Connor walks around at very close to 170. I hope he can keep his movements as fluid and keeps that aspect of his fighting and doesn't just go for the KO ", 
        "I mean. The shit talking will be awesome. But I don't see the hype in this fight at all. ", 
        "Think of the stand up possibilities now that RDAs takedowns are out of the game.", 
        "I honestly don't see Diaz having a chance to be honest. But I do like an upset and McGregor losing to a non-champ in a basically pointless fight would be amazing to see ;) ", 
        "This is one of the most satisfying match ups I have ever seen... I gotta say the UFC put a *huuuge* smile on my face. This is the kind of fight that they tried to convonce us Ronda vs. Zingano or Connor vs. Aldo was supposed to be. \n\nBest match up in a decade if you ask me. ", 
        "Love him or hate him, Nate is a fuckin animal. The man don't have an ounce of fear in his body. \n\nMad respect for stepping up and taking the fight as soon as the opportunity rose, but I wouldn't expect much less from him after he called Conor out. Can't wait! ", 
        ">\"I heard Nate Diaz couldn't even afford the flight over to Las Vegas for the ceremony,\" McGregor said in his acceptance speech.\n\n>\"Stop holding bitterness deep in your bum soul. Stuck on $20,000 to show and $20,000 to fight. I wipe my ass with that money. I tip your wage, Nate, yeah.\"\n\nIt's a few weeks old, but man that's good.", 
        "Is it? That's more of a slam on the UFC than Nate. Personally I put that in the lower echelon of Mcgregor's insults. ", 
        "Nate isn't even close to a challenge for McGregor. He's going to get steam rolled, and it's going to be boring.", 
        "If Mcgregor loses this he's the next Rousey, dumb move on his part", 
        "Yet people criticize Werdum for pulling out.", 
        "Welterweight??\n\nI've been pretty goddamn critical of Conor. I've bet against him several times.  But this takes BALLS. He is proving himself to be more of an anything-goes company man than Cerrone, even.\n\nIf he pulls this shit off, I'll eat my fucking words from before. He's on his way to legend status here.", 
        "Dude...it's because Nate doesn't have time for a full weight-cut.  grow up.", 
        "This fight does nothing to derail McG vs. RDA down the line. Despite the fact I expect RDA to take it....IF McG wins and holds two belts, I'm confident calling that a \"legendary\" moment in the UFC.\n\nMeanwhile, a fight at WW combined with his earlier digs at Lawler? If he beats Diaz here it won't be long before they start talking WW title shot for Conor. They gave him RDA without a single LW bout.\n\nEither way, this matchup is already primed to make our shit-talk dreams come true.", 
        "I'm saying everyone, including you, knows that if those two fought at 155 they'd both weigh well over 170 by fight time.  Only difference is going to be that they didn't have to make the brutal cut to 155 24 hours earlier.\n\nIt isn't like you're billing it that Conor is fighting someone who actually fights at 170.", 
        "That's very true. I'm really only talking about laying the groundwork for a fight against Lawler. You've seen how much bigger he is just preparing for LW, seeing how he moves at 170 is going to be huge. \n\nAll said and done, I think it takes serious balls to fight in foreign divisions, pitting yourself against a capable opponent on short notice at a size you've never attempted professionally. You can feel free to disagree.", 
        "conor is a fucking bitch. 209 - what's up!", 
        "You gotta be fucking kidding me. This is.... AMAZING ", 
        "Man, this is gonna be brutal.", 
        "I would love to see this fight.", 
        "What a time to be alive!", 
        "Stockton versus Eire - a truly historical match up that goes back millenia. ", 
        "At welterweight?!? Cheezus Christ this will be a slobberknocker ", 
        "Holy shit, imagine if Nate wins, the MMA world would implode.\n\n'tko via stockton slap'", 
        "Biggie vs Tupac!! ", 
        "Conor's going to feel amazing at full walking weight / no weight cut. Would love to see 5 rounds of spinning shit. But I reckon 2 is all we'll get", 
        "Since it's no longer a title fight, wouldn't it be 3 rounds?\n\n", 
        "I'll take this, but I would have preferred Faber in all honesty.", 
        "I'm just glad Nate will finally get a decent pay", 
        "If Diaz wins this will put him right away over everybody in title contention. Even over the winner of Cucuy vs The Eagle.", 
        "Win or lose seeing Nate Stockton slapping Connor will be one of the most satisfying things in all of MMA history", 
        "TKO by Leg Kick", 
        "> \"Stop holding bitterness deep in your bum soul.\"\n\nI fucking lost it", 
        "Im a diaz fan and conor irritates me a bit, but stylistically I give this one to conor. Diaz leaves himself too open for strikes far too often.\n\nremember how dead conor looks after cutting weight?\n\nNow imagine him fighting the next day at his natural weight without a weight cut....", 
        "Diaz will implode before the fight even happens. He will lose in the first round and then fail the drug test. Mark this post you Diaz loving shitlords. ", 
        "marked", 
        "I'll see myself out. ", 
        "I hope Nate gets PAID, not 20+20 bullshit.", 
        "Props to the Diaz bros. They'll step up to any fight on short notice. Ballsy move by McGregor, too. Could be a great stand up brawl.", 
        "better match up than before, imo", 
        "If Robbie isn't available to fight McGregor on such short notice then I feel it's only fair that they fight for the interim WW and interim LW title at UFC 196.", 
        "well memed", 
        "Should of just let Holy main event, its strong enough as it is.", 
        "nate's dead. conor's way to polished and precise to lose, and im not even a mcgregor fan.", 
        "I always felt Conor had a respect for the Diaz Bros. \n\nGiven Nates financial situation id say well done to Conor for picking him over Cerrone. Better fight for Nate, Conor and the fans. ", 
        "This is a great fight but stop saying McGregor is the real thing.\n\nHe is not putting anything in the line here. If he loses, the belt is still his. He has a full camp and both fighters share the same physic so, Im pretty sure both fighters would be figthing close to their natural weight.\n\nGreat fight nontheless", 
        "Nate and Conor with no weight cutting = \n\nBattle of super saiyans", 
        "This is over first round, mark my words. Nate has a damn hoodie on, its 72 degrees outside... How out of shape is he?!", 
        "lol", 
        "Nate is gonna murder Conor in the octagon.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Did you not see his foot? Could of happened to anyone. ", 
        "My younger brother is talking insane amounts of shit about RDA knowing he wouldn't piss clean and kicking a wall lol.", 
        "So it might be a Nate Nat Paddy Whack?", 
        "**DIAZ BY STOCKTON SLAP 209 WUT**", 
        "TEAM 209, WHAT! OFFICIAL ", 
        "209 Stockton Motherfuckers\n", 
        "Let's see how Conor responds to the barrage of emojis coming his way. ", 
        "How the hell is this the main event?  While a title fight is co-main?  This sport makes no sense sometimes.", 
        "Because McGregor is the biggest draw in the UFC right now. ", 
        "because mcgregor", 
        "Oh Lord, please make the fight location to be Stockton. ", 
        "I never thought I'd say this, but I hope to see the Stockton Slap fuck his game up.", 
        "I fail to see how anyone can dislike Conor McGregor, even now. ", 
        "Any word of whether its for the interim title?", 
        "Yeah, for the belt @ 170", 
        "Its at 170", 
        "Fuck it, make it the interm title for Lawler's belt then. Lawler hasn't fought in a couple of weeks, he brought this on himself. /s", 
        "Hopefully nate doesn't blaze the ganja like his brother. ", 
        "He does ", 
        "If the fight is really at 170 that's a kind of a smart move for Conor. If he loses, he's not losing any of his rep at 145 or potential 155", 
        "Uhh but he is... ", 
        "No he's not. It's a fight at 170 against an unplanned opponent. ", 
        "He's losing rep just for fighting at 170?", 
        "Not what I said at all ", 
        "My bad I read that wrong. I thought you were saying he was losing rep, your saying he's definitely winning the fight right?", 
        "I'm saying if he does lose (he won't) he is going to lose rep at 155.", 
        "Hope mcgregor loses just because of the 20k comment.", 
        "Jesus christ 2 weight levels above his usual. I'm excited.", 
        "I CAN NOT WAIT. I HOPE THE FIGHT DOESN'T END BEFORE NATE GETS A CHANCE TO STOCKTON SLAP CONOR. ", 
        "LETS DO THIS\n\nSTOCKTON MOTHERFUCKER", 
        "Sooo what happened with that 5 year suspension thing? I never heard.", 
        "Wrong Diaz brother.", 
        "fuck. oops", 
        "get off r/mma", 
        "ELI5: Why is this big news? Hype it up for me!", 
        "My 2 second analysis of this fight after having seen nate fight 0 times but having read a few interviews, I think he will stand with conor to prove he's tough, and get tko'd inside 2 rounds.", 
        "but, Nate is a tough guy with an iron chin and big head.  He is 6 feet tall not 5'6 or 5'7 like Mendes and Aldo. ", 
        "Wolf tickets? ", 
        "170 eh? Well McGregor's balls must be about 50% of his bodyweight at least.", 
        "Hard to get excited about this fight. Conor is going to destroy Nate. Pettis would have been the much more competitive fight, imo. ", 
        "What if Nate Diaz wins but fails his post fight test because he smoked pot recently?", 
        "wrong brother.  That is Nick Diaz not Nate who smokes the weed.", 
        "Then who cares? The fights over. We're already entertained.", 
        "Can it not be ruled a No Contest?", 
        "Why is this fight happening at 170?", 
        "Why is this fight happening at 170?", 
        "I think it was due to Diaz taking this fight on short notice. I'd imagine that he walks around well over 170, so cutting down to 155 might have been difficult for him. They were originally going to do a catch weight at 165, but Conor suggested they just do 170. It's good for Diaz, because he doesn't have to cut as much and it's good for Conor because he get's to try out welterweight. Oh, and we hopefully get to watch a great fight between two trash talking brawlers. Win, win, win.", 
        "Ok cool, thanks for answering my question. In my head I was like \"wait, Connor is naturally a featherweight and Nate is a lightweight, why is this happening at welterweight?\". Didn't think about Nate not being able to cut weight that fast.", 
        "Anytime, brother!", 
        "cool.  now i can skip the event.", 
        "Nate is a horrible fighter...this will be a pretty shitty main event. I'd rather see McGregor vs Duffy, or move him up to Welter to fight Lawler.", 
        "they are fighting at welterweight ", 
        "LETS GO CONOR!!!", 
        "TEAM 209 FLAIRS PLEASE", 
        "Noo why Diaz... \nThis gonna be too easy for Connor.", 
        "What. The. Fuck. Conny Mac is insane, He gives no fucks. I legitimately believe he would fight Rockhold or Jones if given enough money. Dude is a fucking monster. ", 
        "Well this is disappointing...", 
        "Condit described that round as being in the middle of a stormy ocean, fighting to stay above the water but waves keep crashing down", 
        "-Kenny Florian", 
        "Think thats an episode of Hajime no Ippo", 
        "Man that's fucking poetic. Condit's always had a way with words ", 
        "Does he really though? I've noticed the opposite.", 
        "You are confusing Condit with Cro Cop, easy mistake.", 
        "I'm not", 
        "Um, both have short hair, I'm pretty sure you're confusing the two.", 
        "Man, you're hilarious.", 
        "No, this is Patrick", 
        "Then foreigners, amirite?", 
        "I love the way Cro Cop uses the english language. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "In case not a troll, he is playing on the fact that Kenny Florian is a self admitted word thief.", 
        "I dunno if that's poetic.  It's a good analogy though.  ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "M'poetry.", 
        "It's poetic.\n\n> Having an imaginative or sensitively emotional style of expression.", 
        "I guess but its been said before and pretty common way to describe chaos. Ohh stormy ocean, how fuckin poetic lmao", 
        "it can be poetic without being original", 
        "Sure and it can be enjoyed as well if you are retarded which at least 25 members of this community seem to be lmao", 
        "It can be poetic without being enjoyed. ", 
        "Yeah I agree, not sure when I said otherwise lmao", 
        "lmao", 
        "Up vote for you. Down vote for the clown. ", 
        "You misspelled Kenny Florian.", 
        "That reminds me of a quote that's stuck with me:\n\n*Fate whispers to the warrior, \"You cannot withstand the storm. And the warrior whispers back, \"I am the storm.\"*", 
        "* Michael Cera", 
        "- Michael Scott", 
        "5th round Lawler makes most feel that way.  Ending on a high note against Lawler is almost impossible.", 
        "makes you wonder how many nights Lawler spent staring at the ceiling in a dark room thinking about that takedown hendricks got in the last minute of their first fight. ", 
        "The guy just goes berserk in the 5th round.  He's a war god incarnate.", 
        "his gladiator arm tattoo describes him perfectly", 
        "Some have described him as ruthless. :)", 
        "Hot damn. That fight was sensational. ", 
        "> Hot damn. That fight was sensational.\n\nIt seems that any fight against Lawler is good. The guy's tough as fuck. He has a head like a bowling ball. I know that because I have the same head shape.", 
        "You can see how passionate jones is about fighting. And a good teammate. People dislike jones for a lot of reasons, but this is a good part of him. ", 
        "> You can see how passionate jones is about fighting. And a good teammate. People dislike jones for a lot of reasons, but this is a good part of him.\n\nI wholeheartedly agree. This is what I've been telling people for a long time. Despite his flaws, Jon Jones is not a bad person. He just has some inner demons, like any of us. For example, Satan lives inside my chest cavity. FUCK YOU, SATAN! GET OUT OF THERE! ASSHOLE!", 
        "Dude, stop smoking meth", 
        "I agree. As much as I dislike him, you can see how invested he and Holly are by just watching them react to the fight. ", 
        "Yeah you could tell he was just concerned about his teammate at that point. He looked worried.", 
        "At least from what we're seeing (or what he's showing us) he seems to be in the process of cleaning himself up. I'm a huge Jon Jones The Fighter fan but it's hard to reconcile with my opinion of Jon Jones The Person sometimes. ", 
        "I know a girl who trained with him at jw a couple weeks ago. She says he seems like a genuinely nice guy and that she believes he's getting his act together. ", 
        "He prob smashed her lol ", 
        "She's a minor, I hope not lol ", 
        "I bet he gave her a piece of his major ( \u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0) \n\n", 
        "\u0ca0_\u0ca0", 
        "I've said it before, i hate Jones as much as the next guy 6 days of the week.  But Saturdays when he's fighting, i tune in to see him make Top 5 guys and former champs look like amateurs.", 
        "I'm in the same boat.\n\nAll that being said though, I really am rooting for Sunday to Friday Jones to really grow up and get his shit together cause I wouldn't mind actually liking the guy.\n\nSo far he seems to have made good progress so that's cool..", 
        "People keep saying stuff like this but that was like 5 years ago. Hes been getting beat up more than ever before in his most recent fights. Except Glover but we all know he didn't belong in there. ", 
        "I always find this fascinating. Here comes along a couch warrior who has NEVER stepped into a cage to battle another fellow man, someone who has never put the exhausting hours and hours of hard work to reach this level, AND THEN this person has the nerve to say \"we all know he shouldn't be in there\" while sitting on the comfort of his computer chair. \n\nIt's hilarious and ironic at the same time. ", 
        "Are you supporting Dada 5000 or not. ", 
        "What do you mean Glover didn't belong in there? Before he faced Jones, he was on a TWENTY fight win streak. If that kind of streak doesn't earn you a title shot, I don't know what should.", 
        "He needs to stick with Holly Holm more. They always talk about her having kind of a mom vibe and he really could use that. \n\nAlso he needs someone with a chauffeur vibe,  for fuck's sake. ", 
        "I feel like they fuck on the low but try not to too often because it's wrong.", 
        "He needs somebody with a stop doing so much damn coke vibe. ", 
        "Yeah that was insane when it was publicly released how much coke he does! How does someone do *that* much coke?!", 
        "Tolerance is a motherfucker", 
        "5th Round Giga-Lawler is an absolute monster! ", 
        "So, we are just gonna not talk about \"Giga-Lawler\"?", 
        "I'm like,  who is Giga, and when did he fight Lawler?  I must watch the 5th round of Giga-Lawler! \n\nI got it before I hit up YouTube. Don't worry. ", 
        "That's something I wonder about him. \n\nDoes he purposely save his energy for the last rounds, or is some inner beast awakened when his body starts to give out?", 
        "It's a direct result of his first fight with Hendricks, which he lost in the 5th round.", 
        "Second Wind is a real thing. Learn this from years of wrestling tournaments", 
        "Yes, I think so. He lost the first Hendricks fight after gassing in the 5th. 5th round Robbie seems to really have emerged since then.", 
        "I think some people are worse at pacing themselves than others with explosive energy. I think there's also a psychological component when you know there's only minutes left and you can leave it all in the octagon.\n\nTo make a completely unwarranted and laughable comparison between myself and an elite athlete UFC champion - in high school cross country I was terrible at pacing myself. But no matter how absolutely dead I felt toward the end of the race, when I could see the finish line from a couple hundred meters away, I could turn it on and basically sprint to the finish. It drove my coach crazy because it is not an ideal distribution of expended energy, and my time would be a lot better if I could maintain a faster pace over the rest of the race, but something psychologically about seeing the finish line allowed me to reach energy reserves I couldn't otherwise. ", 
        "I doubt anyone saves their enegry for the last rounds, at any moment they could be unlucky and take a hit to chin and fall down. \n\nNo doubt they have energy conservation strategies but in lawlers case i think its just the heart of a champion pumping adrenaline like a mother fucker.", 
        "There's been times when I've been in training and I've just been absolutely fucked but then all of a sudden I get this wave of energy and go for it man. I can't imagine how it must feel for someone like Lawler in that situation. Shit gets you pumped.", 
        "\"You wanna know how I did it? This is how I did it ~~Anton~~ *Carlos*: I never saved anything for the ~~swim back~~ *fifth round*.\"", 
        "Jocko Willink , a former Navy Seal, talked about Seal training on Joe's pdocast. He said they teach you that just when you think you have nothing to give anymore, when your body is done, its actually still got another 40% left in the gas tank. They teach you to push through past that 40%, I imagine Lawler here is pushing on Empty and he just keeps pushing no matter how tired his body tells him he is.", 
        "He'll make sure to save some energy for the 5th, but there is no 6th so he can use it all and just go ham. That's Robbie with no regard for how much energy he's using.", 
        "Especially after the first fight with Johnny. He probably didn't ever want to lose that way again so hes figured a way to push it to 11 and shut off those parts of the brain that day \"WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING! STAAAAAHP!\"", 
        "I'd say both. \nHe knows not to get reckless at the stage he's at and the guys he's fighting are elite of the elite. He went through a murderers row in his last 4-5 fights. Welterweight is arguably the deepest division and Lawler is hanging on top, hope he cashes out big, earns as much title defenses as possible, fights GSP and retires.", 
        "Dos Anjos v Conor and lawler v woodley at UFC200, then Conor Lawler in October, then Conor will have three belts, and GSP V Conor in a mega Christmas showdown, and Conor will retire with three belts and go do action movies for the rest of his days \ud83d\ude0e", 
        "Lol three belts, he will be lucky to get two. Lawler is a whole other animal compared to the guys Conor has fought. I've said it one I'll say again Lawler could take a bat to the head and keep walking forward", 
        "If he beats rda", 
        "Lol if Conors ground game against Mendes is any indication, GSP would not only beat him up for 5 rounds he would probably submit him too. ", 
        "I like Lawler but he's only got 1or 2 defenses left in him. He's getting old. I see him beating the shit outta Woodley if that's the next fight then losing the one after that. ", 
        ">I like Lawler but he's only got 1or 2 defenses left in him. He's getting old.\n\nIf that is true, that is fine.\n\nLawler is the best thing that *ever* happened to the UFC WW division.\n\nGSP is a GOAT, sure, but Lawler is one of those 'last-of-a-dying-breed' Warrior-spirits.\n\n2013-2016 Lawler is one of the most entertaining MMA fighters of all time. My only wish is that the UFC strikes while the iron is hot and sets up Lawler vs Diaz 2 before both men retire. Fuck the belt.", 
        "This exact comment could be posted after every time he's fought since winning the belt. ", 
        "I don't understand how someone can be known as a beast who lasts well, has good stamina and is strong in round 5... and in the next message someone claims he is ageing rapidly and won't be able to fight soon.\n\nThe progression will be that his later rounds will get weaker *then* you have some evidence to base an assertion of ageing around.", 
        "This sub reddit has a strange desire to root against Lawler. He is predicted to lose every single fight on here and he will continue to be until he actually does lose. Then those people will tell us they told us so even though they've predicted it for 3 years and been wrong many times.", 
        "Do you think he's Wolverine or something? Taking as many blows to the head as Robbie has taken isn't good for anyone. It's just a matter of time until it catches up to him. Not if. When. ", 
        "> I don't understand\n\nGee, I don't know...maybe his fighting style is extremely taxing on his body? Maybe, just maybe, that could also mean that said style could be more prone to aging? But dunno, I'm just speculating...\n\n", 
        "When he won the title, lots of people thought Hendricks won that fight. Then fought Rory, and was losing on the score cards until finishing in the 5 th. And now just had a fight with Condit that was so close people are calling for a rematch. He is gonna lose one soon enough. ", 
        "who in the ufc has absorbed as many sig strikes as lawler in the since 2014. \n\n642 by the way", 
        "I think OP was suggesting that Lawler will suffer as a consequence of the damage he takes in every fight, that all fighters (boxing mma etc) who are known for being tough eventually have the accumulation catch up to them and it happens sooner rather than later. The \"1-2 fights\" is a speculative but not unrealistic guess at when he will hit the wall of decline fue to the relentless intensity of every single Lawler fight.", 
        "It's the wars he's going through. 3, 5 round wars in a row. All of them he came close to losing. The fact he's had nearly 40 pro fights. It's very likely he wont be able to continue what he's doing for much longer.", 
        "Lawler is a beast, but lets be honest, hes practically lost all his title bouts. close matches yes, but I honestly think hendricks and condit got robbed in those fights. Macdonald also had him beat, but he took too much damage in the end. Lawler is the most exciting ww champ ever, hands down, but I think the division is too stacked. If wonderboy gets a title shot I think he smokes lawler. ", 
        "Robbie and Rory were close in the end, yeah, but Robbie broke him at the end of that fight. He should get credit for that. ", 
        "I think he means in the sense that as grueling as Lawler's defenses have been, how many of them can he seriously have in him at his fighting age? I know he says he didn't spar for a long time, but he's more than making up for any damage he had avoided in that time with his last few fights.\n\nIf he keeps finding himself in 5-round absolute slugfests it's gotta be a matter of time til one of them goes the other way. His fights are just so volatile it's inevitable.", 
        "Dan Henderson comes to mind. \n\nRobbie has been around a long time. While he isn't \"older\" age wise, his body has taken the toll. ", 
        "he has, but he has been smart about it.  for example, he doesn't spar full contact, or even hard often at all.  hell he quit sparring altogether before joining his current gym, but they said he had to in order to train there.  he knows he has a certain number of hits left in him, and he does the best he can to protect them....\n\naside ofc from when he is in the ring.  the dude is a straight up brawler.  scratch that, he is a gladiator.", 
        "Original Miletich, he was born in the fire. ", 
        "it's not outlandish to think Lawler spent his early years at MFS beating the UFC LW, WW, and HW champ. ", 
        "Because Stephen Thompson is just that good. ", 
        "I have no argument with that.", 
        "It's because you can make predictions on how a fighter will degrade with age by looking at other fighters. However Robbie is only 33 and he isn't quite past that age hump yet, the scarier part of his resume is that he's been fighting in the UFC since 2002. Statistically speaking not many fighters from that generation are still around at the top levels of competition and it's crazy how he's pulled out these title defenses at arguably the last leg of his career.\n\nI agree with the guy above you, Robbie is a fantastic champion and he is fun to watch, but I just don't see him holding the belt for long mostly because of how deep the welterweight division is presently. With that being said I really want to see Thompson vs Lawler.", 
        "You'd be hard pressed to find someone who *doesn't* want to see Lawler vs Thompson. Other than the guys who want a title shot themselves...", 
        "I wanna see Thomson Ko McGregor first", 
        "I'd watch Thompson fight anybody, that's a talented mother fucker. ", 
        "I think he walks through Woodley if they feed him to him, then loses to Thompson.", 
        "I think he beats Woodley too.  No way Woodley takes him down more than a few times and he's only got that over hand right.  Negate those two things and Woodley is fucked.  Thompson definitely will cause problems for Robbie but he made some adjustments for Rory,  there's a chance he could execute a good game plan against Thompson.  ", 
        "Well he is taking LOTS of shots lately and has been in some MONSTERS of wars. It's an OK observation to assume that he may not make it much longer like that. It was also that dudes personal opinion so you can take it with a grain of salt of you want to.", 
        "No man. The shots have nothing to do with it. He's gassing himself bc it takes a lot of energy to be a rockstar....duh, noob", 
        "But youre right! It does take a lot of energy to be a rock star!", 
        "Been hating on Honda a lot since that fight. Just wanna hijack this time to comment on Holly's analysis of what was happening in there. She was spot on, engaged, and right about what she was saying. Truly hope she has a successful and memorable reign. True champion material. \n\n(Spelling, and while I wont change it I feel like a graduate of the college of redundancy college)", 
        "Haha that's cool. But still good points, even if being sarcastic lol", 
        "How is it that almost every single one of lawlers fights are some of the best fights ever?", 
        "I think its his emphasis on stand up. Wrestling can be pretty un interesting to watch when it ends in a fence clinch and it rarely comes to that with Lawler. I think the same is true for McGregor", 
        "It's more than that though. Lawlers fights are almost all 5 rounds of awesome MMA from both fighters that end with some of the best 5th rounds ever. Other fighters focus on stand up but their fights are no where near as amazing as lawlers. I think stand up is part of it but also he has a lot of great competition that could definitely be champs if it weren't for lawlers crazy round 5s.", 
        "good question.  he really has been in some wars that regularly achieve foty gfoat talk status...", 
        "he has FOTY locked up 3 years in a row now\n\n2014 - Hendricks 1\n\n2015 - Macdonald 2\n\n2016 - Condit\n\n", 
        "Styles make fights. Lawler has style. ", 
        "5th round lawler is fucking incredible", 
        "If only he was good in rounds 1-4", 
        "Toe to toe with sea level Cain, motivated BJ, footworky Ronda, flowy Artem, etc. Legendary!", 
        "Agreed.  I think everybody is moving in their seats like Jon Jones when they're watching Lawler in the 5th round.\n\n", 
        "Every time I see Holly I think of [Wilma Flintstone](http://mypartyshirt.com/media/catalog/product/cache/1/image/9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95/w/i/wilma_2.png)", 
        "Once they see he's safe, they were happy because they assume he's going to win the decision :(\n\nI fucking feel you Jones", 
        "That's a foolish way to try to win a fight.", 
        "worked against your goonsquad overlord Nick", 
        "I like Condit more than Diaz.", 
        "1 2 5 ", 
        "I feel Condit lost the same way Cruz won.", 
        "I think Cruz won because the judges saw him moving a lot and TJ missing punches and assumed that meant he was winning.", 
        "I don't feel they are comparable but fair enough. \n\nNot sure what all the down voting is about. Trying to survive the fifth round isn't a good way to win a fight. But any negative thought about condit or any of his performances is a death sentence here. ", 
        "It's a good way to win a fight if you think you won three previous rounds. Obviously it didn't work out for him this time but many think it should have.", 
        "It's just bad coaching and strategy not to try to win every round in every fight. If you're just trying to make it to the bell because you're counting on 2/3 judges agreeing with what your corner is telling you then you're going to get burned on the reg.\n\nI do think Robbie won 3 rounds though, just my opinion.", 
        "And you think it would have been a good idea for Condit to stand and trade with fifth round Robbie Fucking Lawler when there's a solid chance you can win a decision in a minute or so? I'd love to see the looks the rest of the cornermen would give you if you were in a position to give him that advice.", 
        "Is that what I said? Show me exactly where I said that. I'm saying it's a terrible fucking idea to assume you're up 3-1 when you know for a fact you lost at the very least one round. Lot's of people thought it was 2-2 going into the fifth, myself included(Big John McCarthy as well). I would never advise my fighter to coast.", 
        "Things kind of change when you're exhausted from fighting a psycho for over 20 minutes, dead tired, and suddenly that psycho finds the rage of a thousand suns and starts trying to make you the first death in the octagon for the UFC. If Condit tried to do anything but weather that storm I think he would have been put to sleep.", 
        "I agree it is a lot easier to say it than it is to do it. I'm not taking anything away from Condit in that fight, I'm just saying I think he lost because they played the fifth round like he had won the fight already. ", 
        "One of the few fights where the judges actually scored based on damage rather than volume. Personally I was pleased with the result but I would've understood if Condit won based on points.", 
        "it's in the rules that damage>volume. you would think we see it more often. Aldo VS Edgar is another high profile example of them getting it right. Rd.3 is a classic Damage VS Volume argument. people act like it's this giant debate but the rules are very clear about it. if you're even having the argument, damage should have won. ", 
        "Shades of Chuck Liddell", 
        "Nah fuck that. I was doing the exact same thing. That fight was intense.", 
        "The cocaine effect ", 
        "Goldy-esque in his references Joe. ", 
        "Holly Holm should have blessed condits gloves for that +3 holly dmg.", 
        "\"Ruthless\" Robbie Lawler is one of the most fitting nicknames in the sport.", 
        "Notorious is up there as well", 
        "It looks like Jon thought Condit had the decision in the bag and just needed to survive the round.  I agreed with him.  It was a close fight, but I thought Condit won. \n\n\nI love both guys though.  Yeah, 5th round Lawler is a motherfucker, but Condit is no slouch himself.  They were both swinging for the fences.  I'm sure many brain cells were destroyed in that fight.  Lawler and Condit both have been in some absolute WARS. ", 
        "Condit probably would've won if the same judges from Silva-Bisping judged this fight. ", 
        "And if one of the judges' last gig had been a fight of his a decade ago where that judge gave him a controversial win.", 
        "Robbie Lawler's a fuckin' rabid animal.  All of these people (Schaub included) saying that Conor will have no trouble beating him are crazy. I'm not saying it's impossible, but let's see how Conor performs in a few fight above 145 before declaring him the inevitable welterweight champion.", 
        "I haven't heard anyone say that. Shaub was confident Connor would beat RDA but \nsaid Lawler would be a good fight.  ", 
        "Shaub said Conor beats Robbie easy. Shaub also is a bit of a dummy who talks a lot of nonsense.", 
        "Conor would leave that fight in a bodybag. ", 
        "You're delusional.", 
        "no m8,  you need to look at yourself and say that. ", 
        "If you think any champion level fighter is going to take a huge ass kicking because he changed weight classes you're lying to yourself. ", 
        "Oh really?\n\nWhat do you think happens at Lawler vs. Rockhold?", 
        "UFC 200: Mighty Mouse vs. a Great White Shark. If you think any champion level fighter is not able to give a huge ass kicking to literally any thing ever you're lying to yourself.  ", 
        "UFC 200: McGregor vs Werdum", 
        "TIL weight classes are dumb and serve no purpose. ", 
        "Didn't Shaub essentially say weight classes are pointless because size doesn't matter in fights? ", 
        "Something like that. I don't get it. Is the debate about whether a fighter's size is a factor at all? ", 
        "Shaub wants to come back to the UFC but only if he's fed midgets exclusively.", 
        "This is an incredible post..wow", 
        "That fifth round was awesome. Robbie was going all out and Condit didn't run. He stood there and banged with him the whole round and each guy had some moments where they almost knocked each other out. ", 
        "Lawler with that enrage timer... ", 
        "What I love most about this video is that three elite fighters, who happen to be either #1 contenders or champions were all sitting with each other to cheer on someone they train with and consider a friend.  \n\nYou can always say that this isn't a team sport, but these guys might be different. They're training day in and day out to make each other the absolute best. And you can see each one of them be so god damn invested in one of the biggest moments of their friends fight. \n\nIt makes me feel warm inside ", 
        "where's the full video", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/48dsku/full_blast_jon_jones_at_ufc_195/", 
        "Thank you. ", 
        "Mirrored my reactions to the fight", 
        "That love & concern right there.", 
        "I think Robbie getting wobbled in round 1 really hurt his confidence.  He was pretty tentative afterward until round 5.  ", 
        "Yeah Condit's length and funky striking also seemed to bother him a lot. Robbies striking was so much less technical than it was in his previous few fights.", 
        "Wobbly Lawler.", 
        "It's like when you get those waves of salty taste in your mouth before that inevitable first vomit arrives, but you're trying to stave it off.", 
        "Robbie Lawler is a fucking berserker", 
        "Lawler can eat a punch like its nothing. His fight against Rory MacDonald was a brutal showing that he can take more punishment then most fighters.", 
        "Lawler is such a fucking beast in the late rounds, I don't know how he does it. ", 
        "Baw gawd, King!", 
        "It's hilarious. Jon Jones is getting way more emotional than Holly.", 
        "Link to full video?", 
        "I mean no offense, but do you think Holmes looks at those hits and wishes she could hit that hard?", 
        "I know I do...", 
        "Just before the 5th round, Bruce should jump in octagon: \"introducing now, Robbie \"5th round\" Lawler\"", 
        "Lawler won't be able to fight this way with the same amount of success... One day his chin is going to give on him but until that day comes we all gotta appreciate what a fucking monster this guy is. His fights might as well be battles to the death. A true gladiator", 
        "condit should have won that man.", 
        "[from the ammended unified rules ](http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2012/7/17/3163999/association-boxing-commissions-abc-changes-unified-rules-scoring-mma-news)\n\n**Effective Striking**\n\nJudged by determining the impact of legal strikes landed by a contestant and the number of such legal strikes. **Heavier strikes that have a visible impact on the opponent will be given more weight than the number of strikes landed.** These assessments include causing an opponent to appear stunned from a legal blow, causing the opponent to stagger, appearance of a cut or bruise from a legal strike and causing the opponent to show pain. Cumulative impact on a fighter will also be weighed. If neither fighter shows an advantage in impact of strikes, the number of strikes will determine the most effective striker.", 
        "Well, he should've finished him.", 
        "Yeah, how the fuck do any fighters lose fights. They should just finish. Duh.", 
        "Dumb, right? Exactly my point. Just pointing out how useless it is to say how things should've gone, especially when it's arguable at best. ", 
        "That is a really cool way to watch that last round.", 
        "I love how they're squirming in their seats like they're playing a video game ", 
        "i don't think anyone can tee off with as much violence as robbie lawler, it's almost inhuman ", 
        "It's a real shame the video of them both isn't till the end of the 5th and for the decision. It would of been great to see!", 
        "Anybody got source?", 
        "result of drilling for the final rounds in practice", 
        "Super Sayain 3 Lawler", 
        "I think that's the first time I've ever seen Jon jones express that sort of emotion on his face. ", 
        "Imagine if Holly Holm and Jon Jones had kids!? They'd be some super babies.", 
        "There is striking similarity between this and the chuck on cocaine watching a fight vid...", 
        "This is why I love Robbie Lawler", 
        "Look at how nervous Jon is.\n\nJesus Christ lol.", 
        "one of the only times I've seen Jon's face like that..", 
        "Holly has that concerned sports mom look down pat. Also these two should mate and produce the world's first Super Saiyan.", 
        "Poor jones was nearly white bless him", 
        "Anyone know how i can watch this video? Im from the UK and when i try viewing it on YT, says not available in your country. Love full blast", 
        "Have you tried using some sort of proxy such as http://www.youtubeproxy.pk/? That, or some similar site, should work!", 
        "thanks man\n", 
        "this is why scores should be posted every round. ", 
        "robbie and rumble are the p4p scariest motherfuckers in the game right now", 
        "this is the most I've ever liked jon jones, because he is actually expressing concern for another human being. ", 
        "I'm really starting to like Jon and holly. Are they both single? Would make the cutest couple and the most freak athlete baby.\n#Jolly\n#Holmes", 
        "Pretty sure Holly is married, and Jones has a fianc\u00e9 (not that it's stopped him in the past). ", 
        "> Would make the cutest couple and the most freak athlete baby.\n\nronda + travis browne would like a word with ya", 
        "Hehe although it's a pretty solid argue meant that jones is more freak than Browne when it comes to genetics", 
        "\"I need to have his babies so I don't kill myself\"", 
        "\"powerful\" - joe rogan", 
        "i cant tell when this gif starts or ends", 
        "I've never seen JJ cum before", 
        "\"Give him an eye poke. Works for me!\" - Jones", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Could you remind us, when McGregor was in the 5th round?", 
        "I counted at least 5 exchanges there where McGregor would have countered and KO'd Lawler stiff. ", 
        "you were tagged as \"conor shill\", you've done it justice.", 
        "He has to be imitating Chuck Liddell on purpose right? Too much Irony to handle.", 
        "Maybe they were the kids that moved their hands and body when playing racing games. Seems he's just that invested that he's putting himself in there with him.", 
        "*Obviously* those kids were on coke", 
        "> When your team-mate is up against fifth-round Lawler\n\nMake that fifth-round **PED**-Lawler. Not to be mistaken with pre-2013 Lawler who didn't have anywhere near the same level of stamina for like an entire decade of fighting. ", 
        "lmao Jon's eyes were lunching me tf out ", 
        "That is how Champions need to be. Good job Conor", 
        "Fabricio sucks", 
        "What does that, as false as it is, have to do with anything?", 
        "why come?", 
        "For the most part I dislike his antics top the bottom but I have to admit I get a warm fuzzy feeling from seeing this. He is so talented, he could still make huge bank without the dickhead attitude. I'm a fan from the old days so I like my trash talk mild.", 
        "He found the one person buying Reebok gear:)", 
        "Will the real ShaneCarwin, please stand up. Please stand up! ", 
        "> please stand up. Please stand up!\n\nSo you can, sit me here next to Britney Spears?\nYo Shit, Christina Aguilera better switch me chairs\nSo I can sit next to Carson Daly and Fred Durst\nAnd hear 'em argue over who she gave head to first", 
        "Wish you were still fighting, but it's good to see you are still active in the community.  Thanks for all the awesome entertainment bro.", 
        "wishes come true bro", 
        "Holy shit Shane Carwin! Just want to say I'm a big fan and think you're an all-around great guy. Cheers and crazy to see you around here", 
        "thanks bro", 
        "How's the engineering going? I always respected the fact that you have that whole background. When you beat Mir I thought \"Wow! This guy is like a philosopher-king!\"", 
        "Its great, they tend to use me more in sales at the moment and that is hard for me to get. In Belize we were having $2500 meals and I was pretty sure that everyone would have been fine at the Taco shack. I am too cheap even when it is an expense account.", 
        "I used to have the same \"problem\" with expense accounts. No one ever appreciates that though. You have to stay grounded. That is another trait I noticed about your MMA career: you have always kept in touch with the real world. I'm glad you have engineering and that MMA was more of a small-time passion for you. Of course you touched the mountain top; I'm kinda jealous of that. But I know you have long-lasting endevors that are more fulfilling. Keep up the good work!\n\nEDIT: I also just want to say it is an honor to correspond with you! When that big swirl of heavy-weights was going on, I wanted you to beat back all contenders. Alas, it wasn't to be, but fuck me you put on a good show!", 
        "Oh my. I had no idea he was one of us!", 
        "Shane, it's a real trip seeing your name pop up here on /r/mma. Glad you're with us!", 
        "Just out of intrest, whats been your favorite experience with a fan so far?", 
        "how about the worst?\n\nHe is a good guy and I wont name names. But basically he won a trip to come to meet me, hang out and go boating. Might have been sponsored by Malibu. Anyways he got so drunk, got violent with friends, bartender at my favorite spot etc. It was horrible. I had to apologize all over town the next day", 
        "I have a friend who got like the once....its fucking awful, especially when it's a friend you care about and you've never seen him like it before. \n\nSorry you had to deal with that man. ", 
        "Damn man that sucks, I kind of hope it was just nervous and anxiety that got to him rather than him just be a tool.", 
        "That sounds pretty shitty. Any idea how he felt about it afterwards? I mean drinking too much and making a show of yourself in front of your friends is bad enough. I have to imagine this would be far worse from his perspective, (not that he didn't bring it on himself). ", 
        "Horrible, apologized up and down. it was not life altering. ", 
        "I remember that contest,  shitty to hear it didn't go well. You and I had surgury around the same time in 2010 I think,  you retweeted one of my tweets about it, haha. It was awesome", 
        "Just how drunk does someone have to be to act like a bad ass next to you. My god.", 
        "he was small but he drank a lot. He is a UGer and there may have been a thread on there. ", 
        "Explain no more haha ", 
        "What is a UGer?", 
        "Undergroud mma forum?", 
        "UnderGrounder, MMAUnderGround. It's a diff mma forum that has negative connotations around here.", 
        "submissionfighting.comer", 
        "I am", 
        "Likewise ", 
        "You're a good man too Shane.", 
        "Thanks. I like classy stuff like this, more people in Rolls Royces can learn a lesson from Conor. ", 
        "actually i think..Conor is one of the more humble guys who drives a Rolls Royces... not even the local humble celebrities in my country are like Conor..  ", 
        "I wouldn't exactly call Conor humble  . . . Let's say \"appreciative of his fan base\". Much more accurate. ", 
        "Thanks..  You are 100% right ", 
        "seems super cool", 
        "every time I see you post here, it reminds me how great this sport is\nhttp://i.imgur.com/BuCZZ1i.gif", 
        "I didn't know Brock was the guy in that gif.", 
        "[;)](http://imgur.com/OYK8F22)", 
        "Oh shit, it's Shane Carwin. I almost didn't even notice the username. You're one of my all-time favorite fighters. Cool to see you engage here with the community.", 
        "Agreed, he really had one of the best dirty boxing, lovely to see him here :)", 
        "you are one of my all time favorite fans. ", 
        "Holy shit! Dude, much love from a fan all the way in the 209!", 
        "Holy shit Shane Fuckin Carwin! Awesome dude", 
        "F Yeah", 
        "HW division needs you back! You'd be such an incredibly exciting addition back to the roster. Thanks for the blood, sweat, and tears sir. ", 
        "Yes I hear this. I pray on it a lot", 
        "How many lemons could you hold in one hand before dropping them?\n", 
        "they turn to lemonade when I touch them, it remains a mystery", 
        "Just in case there was any doubt that this is indeed the real Shane Carwin, I think this answer alone validates the account.", 
        "Shane, do you hold the record for largest UFC gloves worn in the octagon?  ", 
        "Mine were custom made 5xl", 
        "Hey Shane, do you think you could post a picture of the gloves if you still have any? It boggles my mind how huge your hands are. \nP.S.- Thank you for interacting with us keyboard warriors!", 
        "i'll dig some up. It might be able to find the wraps, but sure. ", 
        "My man Carwin representing the CO!", 
        "Are your condoms custom made too?\n ( \u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0)  ", 
        "you know", 
        "Sponsored by Hefty.\n", 
        "It'd be a cruel twist of fate to have a mediocre sized wang with those giant hands.  The optics of it would be traumatic.  ", 
        "[Heh.](http://i.imgur.com/lMEa58i.png)", 
        "Damn. This shit actually made me smile. Turns out he actually does give at least one fook. Such a cool dude.", 
        "> fook\n\nThat is not what it sounds like and never has. People in certain parts of England might speak like that, but not in Ireland.", 
        "In Ireland it's just \"fuck\", only in our accent. ", 
        "like him or hate him, everything has pointed to Conor truly caring about fans. ", 
        "Do you never smile? The way you phrased that makes me think you are a smileless, unhappy, individual. Know that I love you and everything will be okay. Drink wine.", 
        "Haha cheers mate. Will see you in heaven one day.", 
        "I think part of it is that I just didn't really know a whole lot about the guy, but man am I liking him and what he's about more and more by the day.", 
        "He always was like that. When someone asks for a signature or picture, he is literally thanking almost everyone. He is a really cool dude.", 
        "He does some charity work that doesn't get publicized as well, I've heard about him going to friend's of friend's cancer fund raisers and stuff like that, stuff he doesn't mention to the media", 
        "I have a lot of respect for athletes who are humble like this. ", 
        "I don't think he's humble really. I think he just is super-awesome to his fans.", 
        ">Conor McGregor\n\n>humble\n\nyou're right though, he is at his core. Gotta love the dude.", 
        "To me, the bragging and trash talking is his brand. This is what brings him attention and promotion. ", 
        "His public persona is the not-a-single-fook-giving, above-everyone trash talker. It sells fights.\nAt his heart, though, you can tell he is a humble and a respectful guy. ", 
        "He spun it as, \"I'm a killer\" but the Diaz presser revealed how he feels about recovery. Warning off Aldo and Mendes to heal and preserve their chins was an interesting little wrinkle in the build up.\n\n", 
        "I really became a fan after the Mendes fight. After all the shit they talked, he still hugged him and told him he'll rebuild and get back on top and showed all that emotion that we hadn't seen before. ", 
        "I became a fan after he told Mendes he'd rest his balls on his head. Different strokes!", 
        "\"Conor, do you know what wrestling is?\n\n\"I can.. I can rest my balls on your forehead\"\n\nLmao classic", 
        "Same. But even him doing this makes me like him. I like both strokes?\n\nNo homo\n\n\nI fucked this post up", 
        "Favorite comment. ", 
        "He even mentioned it in some previous video (the vlog?) that he should stop by there. Warms my heart to see him take the time and do it. ", 
        "Was that not exactly what was in this video link?\n\nEdit: nvm; diff vid w nobody shoutin back. Cool.", 
        "I think there was a previous video where he first saw it and the guy wasn't out there yelling at him. ", 
        "Oh ok, sweet. Either way, this was cool.", 
        "It was on his Instagram, he took a video as he was driving by", 
        "I saw this earlier as well, glad to see he did it.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No way you big spastic, you're a mentalist!", 
        "\"It's called and aeriolator\"", 
        "https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=FV8tciBFpCI\n\nHad just posted this then seen these posts.", 
        "I fucking love that show, and most other things Coogan has done, but I wish it didn't have the laugh track.", 
        "Conor in his head as he's going up the stairs\n\n\"Please don't be a nutjob please dont be a nutjob please dont be a nutjob\"", 
        "That's why he brought a camera guy and a security entourage with him ;)", 
        "I'm pretty sure they had somebody go ahead to scope it out", 
        "https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=FV8tciBFpCI", 
        "I was thinking he was actually pretty normal and then he started crying and I was like okay he's at least a little bit nuts. A well adjusted and non-violent nutjob whose only nuttiness is that he cries", 
        "Yeah, Conor wasn't the first one to the door. Looks like his bodyguard vetted the place. ", 
        "Plus the guy is wearing a button-down shirt. Who does that in their own house at night. Most likely, he was wearing sweatpants when the bodyguard arrived, gave him time to change real quick.\n", 
        "I don't think we can use logic about the guy that has a carboard cut-out of McGregor on his balcony. He might be upset he didn't get to dress up for the video.", 
        "Also don't forget he had a camera crew with him. They probably stopped by earlier to get the place 'camera ready.' Or at the very least game him a chance to tidy up.", 
        "Gave the guy an ocular pat down.", 
        "because of the implication", 
        "I thought you cleared him, Mac!", 
        "Obviously vetted him before Conor showed up", 
        "How can you tell and what does that mean lol", 
        "A guy literally opened the door and said: Here's mr mcgregor before he came in", 
        "They sent someone over to check it out. Sign video releases and give them dos/don'ts.", 
        "Could do releases at the time, but would have to do a health and safety risk assessment prior to taking a crew up.", 
        "Also the door was open before Conor got to the top of the stairs. They were clearly expecting him/had knowledge he was coming up. ", 
        "Well, maybe he buzzed him in.", 
        "> Also the door was open before Conor got to the top of the stairs. They were clearly expecting him/had knowledge he was coming up.\n\nIf you watch the video, he literally gave him advanced notice. He shouted from his car that he'd visit him.", 
        "Shouting \"I'll see you tomorrow\" wouldn't give him permission to open a stranger's door at night and walk in lol, they clearly contacted him and let him know he was on his way up.", 
        "It looked to me like he yelled that the day before is all. ", 
        ">and give them dos/don'ts.\n\nProtect yourself at all times.\n\n", 
        "it would be fuckin hilarious if that crazy fan who tries to look like him popped out of nowhere.", 
        "it would be the funniest shit if it was the dude he swagger jacked", 
        "[They're tight](http://i.imgur.com/8q5HKqF.jpg)", 
        "Annnnnnnd it gets worse....\n\n\nWere did you find this?", 
        "http://imgur.com/FbDeFhz", 
        "I understand that reference. ", 
        "have... women sent you videos of their queefs?", 
        "Yeah, but he only tried to take his hairstyle and wardrobe so it's cool.", 
        "[Fuck TMZ, here's the youtube mirror](https://youtu.be/xsdrbB_zifo?t=9)\n\n\n[Full video](https://streamable.com/wxjo) -- Props to /u/Viewbod", 
        "We watch their content, might as well give them the views.", 
        "thank you for allowing me to not view TMZ. ", 
        "...You watched the video right?  It was heavily branded by TMZ. Regardless of if you watched it on their website or not, you definitely watched something produced by TMZ.", 
        "denied them a click on their website though.", 
        "That really doesn't matter. It's still a viral video that people will see, regardless of the source. \n\nThat said, can I ask what you hate so much about them?", 
        "just everything.", 
        "Well, not everything. You just watched a video produced by them and seemingly liked it. So I'd imagine you like *some* things they make. ", 
        "i didn't notice, my mind has adblock and it blurs out logos of shitty companies.", 
        "That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard.", 
        "i'll take that as a compliment.", 
        "You da real champ", 
        "Guess I'll just have to give them an extra view for you. ", 
        "\"Fuck TMZ. Here is some video that I'd never be able to see without TMZ.\" ", 
        "\"Fuck Stalin. Here is some healthcare he gave to his citizens.\"\n\nYou can hate something and admit that not *everything* they do is bad / enjoy the benefits of *some of it* while acknowledging the larger negative effect of it. The number of people who can't wrap their head around that simple idea is mind blowing. ", 
        "This entire subreddit is TMZ for MMA. To act like it's any worse to do it for actors is silly. ", 
        "I clicked before looking at the source. Thanks for the mirror.", 
        "Thanks. TMZ doesn't get a click from me ", 
        "Technically they did, since it's their video that you're watching. ", 
        "http://m.originalapps.store.aptoide.com/app/market/jp.co.asbit.pvstarpro/59/3542870/PVSTAR%2B+PRO", 
        "and this is?", 
        "No idea I am drunk. I think I posted it because I have that app because it skips ads and doesn't affect the view county.\n\nWho knows tho", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Thanks.", 
        "I was looking for this. Fuck TMZ.", 
        "I know it's cool to hate on them and all but if they produced a video you want to see and enjoy why not give them the deserved view? Honestly.", 
        "Cause they're morons, apparently. ", 
        "> I know it's cool to hate on them and all but if they produced a video you want to see and enjoy why not give them the deserved view? Honestly.\n\nNah.", 
        "Great argument.", 
        "Especially when things like the Warmachine drama, Ronda Rousey-Travis Browne relationship discussion and Urijah Faber's weird-naked-woman-visitations get more upvotes than real MMA material.\n\nNah, man. We be dislikin' TMZ.", 
        "Do you work for them?\nI remember another thread where you also defended tmz. I don't want them to get views because it's a disgusting company. They make up stories. They don't respect basic journalistic principles. They don't care about dignity. I'm not better than anyone else and I have my guilty pleasures so I am sometimes interested in a story from tmz. But since they're so shitty and I still want to know about that story a mirror is the perfect solution to this dilemma. ", 
        "their site is absolute trash and runs like shit", 
        "Because the more sites I allow to arbitrarily run Flash and Javascript in my browser, the less safe and private I am. I would rather trust a big site like youtube or streamable than a corrupt tabloid shithole.", 
        "They're just hosting it. This video was made by UFC Embedded. \n\nStealing other people's shit is party of TMZ's schtick.", 
        "Because TMZ has a bad \"cool video to shitty video\" ratio. The circle jerk is accepted. ", 
        "Video wasn't loading for me.  I thought the entirety of the link was the caption, which is all I could see.", 
        "No, this would exist and go viral without the pathetic company that harasses people in order to turn a profit. Why support a company with zero ethics.\n Not only that but their site is broken on mobile. ", 
        "From a quick search, the company that owns TMZ is Time Warner so if you want to boycott the company you should also extend your boycott to HBO, Warner Bros., TBS and the Cartoon Network since they are all the same. \n\nIf TMZ Sports continues to produce content that doesn't make use of paparazzi (which from the 3 or so videos I've seen of theirs so far appears to be the case) then I don't have a problem with treating their content the same way I treat content from any other division of Time Warner. \n\nThat said, the standard TMZ celebrity paparazzi stuff is trash. I won't watch it at all since I don't want to support that type of content.", 
        "So because I boycott TMZ I should boycott Time Warner.\n\nNo, how bout I just stay the fuck away from a division of Time Warner I want nothing to do with.", 
        "Because it would fund the other 99% of their garbage paparazzi content.\n", 
        "like everybody on this sub doesn't run adblock anyway", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I literally read that as \"brazilian scripts\" \n\nI was like damn, hardcore hate... down to the code.", 
        "Well for me the video does not work on mobile even with flash. Also TMZ are vultures. An ugly vulture flies around, the fucking vulture makes a back flip mid air and catches a rat, sure you might enjoy it, but do you feed the vulture and give it praise ? No because it's fucked up and this flying animal works for TMZ, and fuck TMZ", 
        "\\#vulturelivesmatter", 
        "Worked fine on my mobile (iOS). Your other points still stand though. ", 
        "Terrific analogy lol", 
        "Shut up, remove your pants and join the circle.", 
        "[http://i.imgur.com/dNWunIB.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/dNWunIB.jpg)", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/uswumoy.gif", 
        "I expected the Irish guys jacking each other off. ", 
        "I wish there was a version with upvotes shooting up out of their hands", 
        "source? lol", 
        "Who originally recorded this video?", 
        "Probably someone in his crew, good for PR and promo.", 
        "Looks like part of UFC Embedded, wonder if UFC gave it to TMZ to soothe them after Conor told a TMZ reporter to fuck off", 
        "MVP", 
        "Thank you based German flag man.\n\nCan we make a rule NEVER to link to TMZ shit without mirroring?", 
        "Just because you don't like tmz, isn't it good for the sport to have high view numbers on their mma videos? More views is more coverage leading to more fans.\n\nIf you care about the sport, link tmz.", 
        "No.", 
        "d/w ill turn off ad block and refresh it a few times for you", 
        "Seriously, I feel dirty now.", 
        "I actually feel pretty disappointed in myself", 
        "Dammit, I clicked on it at work. I should prepare my cardbox. ", 
        "Should be tagged \"Non TMZ link in comments\"", 
        "I had a similar thing when Cody McKenzie saw the cutout I had of him on my balcony. That was three weeks ago and he\u2019s still sleeping on my couch. Send help.", 
        "At least it's Cody McKenzie and not Junie Browning.", 
        "This is so easy to imagine being a real story lol \n\n\nEdit: just spray him with the hose. ", 
        "Call Barn Cat Pest Control. I had a Ward infestation and couldn't get any sleep because he was chirping all night. BCPC was quick, professional, and courteous.", 
        "That's fucking awesome. McGregor treats his fans so well.", 
        "He always have to have cameras  to show how \"nice\" he is.", 
        "not true.", 
        "Yeah its all for the cameras. Except the press conferences and pre fight interviews which are not for anything except showing mcgregors true colours.", 
        "I've seen lots of photos of McGregor with fans when he's doing his own thing!", 
        "seems like cameras are following him 99.9% of the time anyway.", 
        "Lol he does more dickish things ON camera than OFF. Apparently anyone who has met him in person only has had nice things to say.", 
        "Come on even when Conor does nice things for his fans you still find ways to trash him.", 
        "Mousasi says he doesn't give a f*ck about the fans. He became so salty after the Hall loss.", 
        "I like that he always says thank you after talking pictures with fans.", 
        "> I like that he always says thank you after talking pictures with fans.\n\nMcGregor is smart. He knows what's going on. Taking pictures with fans is basically a free promotion. They will post it to Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, Reddit, or wherever the fuck. It's really good for your image. What we're looking at right now is an excellent example. This is what you'd call a win-win situation. Fans are happy, and you get promoted.", 
        "I think being a welfare case to a superstar in a few years does a lot to make you appreciate your fans. ", 
        "He knows why he gets to make big bucks fighting, it's because of the fans. He would have no negotiating power if it weren't for fans like the guy in the video. I believe his is really thanking them, as he knows they are a huge part of his success.", 
        "Or just a nice bloke.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Mine's a 9 as well.  ( \u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0)", 
        "\"I dont even have those!\" Hahahahahaha", 
        "\"I don't have [a use for] those!\"", 
        ">Reebok sucks. Why'd you buy it? lmao", 
        "Ha, exactly!", 
        "Conor is marketing genius. Now everybody in LA will put out cardboard version of Conor thinking he'll come over. I certainly would do that.", 
        "Lol I can't believe people like you always think there is an ulterior motive behind everything. ", 
        "I've had my Paige cutout up for months. No luck yet. I'm holding out hope.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Rose shows up \"Why you got that Paige cutout?\" and just stares you down with Pat Barry behind her, arms folded.", 
        "Give it a wash. ", 
        "Or two, care to share it tho? ", 
        "> I've had my Paige cutout up for months. No luck yet. I'm holding out hope.\n\nWipe all the cum off of it, and she'll give you a chance.", 
        "Ahhhh the cardboard is all wrinkly and smelly now \ud83d\ude31", 
        "I've had my Paige pillow waifu for months, that's all I need.", 
        "Next time don't use a filthy, used, home made sex doll with Paige's face crudely taped on. Ya feckin deviant!\n\nhttps://shitmycakesays.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/homemade-sex-doll.jpg\n\n", 
        "Jesus fuck...buffalo bill shit right there ", 
        "Noooo... What-Nooooo. What is that NO", 
        "What in god's holy name is that ", 
        "Imagine the kid who made this,patents. Go out for the night he plans a night of romance.\nCome home early catch him humping thst fucking thing .life ender", 
        "> a filthy, used, home made sex doll with ~~Paige~~'s face crudely taped on.", 
        "Come on. We both know why you have it.", 
        "Dat ass tho", 
        "By cutout he means he cutout the mouth.", 
        "By paige cutout he means northcut poster above his bed. ", 
        "So cool of him, made that guys day/year/etc. Also is he working with TMZ now or did they pull this video from somewhere?", 
        "TMZ exclusive... unfortunately had to bite the bullet on this one", 
        "any other sources? really not in the mood to turn off adblock for these cunts", 
        "The way it's edited seems like it's part of Embedded. I wonder if the UFC sold it to TMZ for promotion or if Conor's team filmed it. ", 
        "Reeks of promotion. \"Hey look he's not so bad!\"\n\nThey vetted the shit out of this fan OR they gave Connor's manager an ear of shit for letting him charge up there. ", 
        "watch it will be on Embedded Episode 2 today! TMZ just paid for the exclusive. ", 
        "I wonder how much money/traffic they get from their MMA coverage. There seems to be an spike in their MMA coverage recently, no?", 
        "I feel like most of it just has to do with McGregor more than anything. Trying to capitalize on the popularity to increase their numbers. My guess is that McGregor is getting a cut of it too. ", 
        "He's also getting more exposure. Win win", 
        "WINNING!!!", 
        "Cagefighters are the new movie stars?", 
        "I approve. ", 
        "they were probably the highest bidder for that video", 
        "Hopefully paid for it with that Australian guys salary.", 
        "> Hopefully paid for it with that Australian guys salary.\n\nThe Australian guy probably got a promotion.", 
        "I used to hate mcgregor\n\nbut lemme tell ya he's slowly but surely growing on me after the press conference", 
        "no fair weather fans allowed ya goof", 
        "UFC is a show.  It's the WWF.  I don't believe any of these people are what they act like in press conferences and weigh-ins.", 
        "I honestly flip flop on this guy so much. On one hand I really feel that his whole \"Getting paid millions and I'm worth more\" attitude is really beginning to grind a little. He's very successful and works very hard but it's getting a bit old hearing him constantly talk about his bank account. On the other he does stuff like this that just really shows he's a thoughtful and charismatic individual that will go out of his way for others if he can. ", 
        "That's just \"New money\" Syndrome. Poor people that get rich act this way.\n\nI have envisioned how i would act if i was a millionaire over night, and it's much the same.\n\nIt's a poor person ting.", 
        "> I have envisioned how i would act if i was a millionaire over night, and it's much the same.\n\nHow often do you envision this exactly?", 
        "All day erry day, baby!", 
        "it's true though, Conor's picture appears under noveau riche in the dictionary", 
        "I'm not denying it.", 
        "Some of the stuff he says and does is ridiculous, but you can tell from stuff like this that he's a thoroughly decent guy. I could do without seeing yet another photo of his Rolls Royce on Instagram, but it's all just trying to build a persona that his opponents will struggle to get over. And his press conferences are always funny as hell.", 
        "I used to hate on it, but him getting paid more should (in theory) improve salaries across the board.", 
        "It's a gimmick, think of him as a UFC Ted Dibiase. ", 
        "Dude now he HAS to come out and say 'everyones got a price!'", 
        "If he offers a kid money if he can dribble a basketball 10 times then kicks it on number 9, I'll be a fan forever. ", 
        "Just like his coach said, when the cameras are not around Conor is 100 times more down to earth, humble and good person all around.\n\nI'm surprised so many people get so invested in the \"image\" side of \"celebrities\".", 
        "The money talk is usually when he's in his business/promotion mode for the UFC or on his social media when he's posting pictures of cars etc. - he has this image to portray at this stage. \n\nBut he seems such a genuine guy when it comes to his fans, pretty much anyone that's met him only have good things to say. Notice how he thanks every single person who he signs something for or gets a picture with. He's genuinely grateful for all his success and knows the part his fans play in that.", 
        "I feel like the way you treat your fans speaks volumes. Used to hate this guy but now feel like he's actually a standup dude who's doing everything in his power to become a household name. At the level Connor's arrived to \u2014\u00a0you don't take time to sign shit, take pictures and visit some rando nutter with an effigy of you on his balcony unless you genuinely care on some level.", 
        "He's bringing more people to the sport. So many people that never liked watching MMA, are watching it because they think he's crazy and fun.", 
        "He seems like a really nice dude behind all the self-promotion. I didn't know what to think of him at first but he made me a fan when he made that comment about how he doesn't care if his fans make money off his signature. \n\n**Edit:** found the quote. \n\n\u201cThey go through the hustle of standing outside in the cold, getting the pictures printed, showing up,\u201d McGregor said. \u201cAt the end of the day, they\u2019re supporting the event. At the end of the day, they are fans of the show because they understand the fighters, they understand the pictures, they understand everything. So they\u2019re fans, let them make a few quid.\u201d", 
        "I imagine he said \"hassle\" and not \"hustle\". \n\nGreat quote.", 
        "Fair play to him. That was a great thing to do. ", 
        "Championship shoes I don't even have a pair of these.   \nReebok must be delighted.", 
        "I used to really dislike Conor before the Aldo fight etc but man, he's really turned me round. How the hell can you not love how much he cares for this sport / the fans / putting on a show / always turning up. He really is incredible.", 
        "Same. All I paid attention to were the antics, not the \"getting to know you\" clips. I can't be happy about what happened Aldo but there has been a lot of emphasis on the human side of the new champion, and I'm responding for sure. ", 
        "\"Omg, honey... did you hear what he said? He said he's coming up here tomorrow! We have to stay home all day so we don't miss him!\"\n\n\"But.... tomorrow is our wedding day...\"\n\n\"Don't care. Staying home.\"", 
        "\"By the way, I'm getting my hair cut like Mcgregor's too\"", 
        "Totally imagined him taking the whole day off work, picking out his favorite shirt... like a middle schooler right before the first day of school. This dude is adorable.", 
        "I got slightly uneasy for Conor when I saw the guy has the same haircut he had in the Poirer fight. Also kinda weird he also had the irish flag when he didn't seem irish at all. ", 
        "You don't have to have an accent to be Irish, or any other ethnicity.", 
        "If you are raised in Ireland you are Irish , environment & culture is a huge part of development. Just like every country if you are raised there for most of your early youth..", 
        "So he can't fly the flag then?", 
        "Where did I say that?", 
        "Then I'll re-phrase. Can he fly the flag or not?", 
        "The more the better! In fact I collect em", 
        "He strikes me very much as an American with some Irish ancestry and is ridiculously proud of that ", 
        "Pretend Irish like a lot of Americans", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Friday? Gave that up pretty quick", 
        "I was Guatemalan on Thursday ", 
        "It's such a mixing pot. I know personally my grandparents descend straight from irish roots (grew up in a small irish community, and they traced their lineage kind of obsessively (proud of it) ), but I wouldn't say I'm \"half irish\" because that side of the family has lived here for hundreds of years lol. But when Conor fights it makes me want to proclaim that irishness in me more haha", 
        "We Americans are weird about our ancestry here. People call themselves Irish if they had a couple grandparents born there, and not necessarily all four of them. I have an Irish name so I often get people who see that as something we have in common, when in  reality only two of my great grandparents were born there. ", 
        "Shit, all you need is one grandparent to be eligible for Irish citizenship. Hard to argue with you once you have the passport.", 
        "thats probably why conor keeps changing up his haircut", 
        ">he didn't seem irish at all.\n\nThat's how you know he's an Irish-American. AKA, an American. ", 
        "His great great grandmothers neighbor knew an Irish man once. So he's Irish. ", 
        "> His great great grandmothers neighbor knew an Irish man once. \n\nAnd they might have banged so this guy thinks maybe he's Irish.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "There is no genetic difference between Irish people and other white people. The only difference is culture. If you're born and raised in America, you're American regardless of where your great grandma came from. ", 
        "You can say you have irish ancestry but if you've never lived there and know fuck all about the place then you aren't irish, you are just american. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah and I'm saying its stupid and annoying to hear when you actually are irish lol", 
        "If Conor was from Sweden and the dude had a swedish flag up, would it be weird? Of course not.\n\nIt's just because alot of white americans have this weird 'fetish' towards Ireland that makes it seem weird. I dont think this guy is weird at all", 
        "So you know one of your great great grandparents is Irish. What about your other 15 great great grandparents?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I didn't mean \"you\" you. But if you (not \"you\" you again) go around saying you're an eight this and a quarter that, etc., where does it end? Maybe your Irish great great grandmother's parents aren't Irish.", 
        "I got a lot of that when I lived in the US.\n\n'Oh I'm Irish too.' 'My family are from County Slip (doesn't exist.)' \n\nAnd various other misconceptions about Ireland all the while tellign me how Irish they were. \n\nThey're not Irish, they're American. It just gets annoying after the thousandth time you hear it. ", 
        "By this logic, you shouldn't call \"African Americans\" African Americans.  They should be called American.\n\n&nbsp;\n\nHere come the downvotes.", 
        "No, you wouldn't call them African.", 
        "No because that would be like calling them Irish Americans, which does make sense", 
        "> By this logic, you shouldn't call \"African Americans\" African Americans.\n\nYou shouldn't call them that anyway... what is this unique fear Americans have of calling black people \"black\"?\n\nIt's retarded.", 
        "Careful there big guy, you'll get the downvotes! ", 
        "When Americans say \"I'm Irish\" it's referring to ancestry, not nationality. We figure it out based on context from the accent - an American accent = \"this is my nationality\" whereas someone with an accent says \"I am X\" it means they are from that nationality. Confuses people.", 
        "No, I know that's what it means.", 
        "So why does someone stating they are of Irish ancestry bother you?\n\n>They're not Irish, they're American.\n\nNo, they're of Irish ancestry. That's what they're saying. \"Irish\" can mean nationality or ancestry.", 
        "Saying 'I'm ____,' does not mean ancestry. It's stating nationality.\n\nAnd as an Irish person who has listened to americans call themselves Irish while having very little knowledge of Irish culture, for years and years, it gets on your nerves.\n\n", 
        ">Saying 'I'm ____,' does not mean ancestry. It's stating nationality.\n\nIt means ancestry if you have an American accent in America. Irish is more than a nationality - it's a race/ethnicity/ancestry and a nationality. You don't own it and neither does the Irish government.", 
        "No, we don't own it. But if you're going to claim it, at least try to know something about it. \n\nBeing Irish is not about blood, it's about the culture. ", 
        "> County Slip\n\nFucking hell that's hilarious!", 
        "Everyone in Boston", 
        "Maybe to the fan the Irish flag represents what Conor stands for. His ability to have an entire nation behind him, those are his colors. One can sport a flag of a country they admire without the need of a trace back there. Dude loves McGregor regardless of his home country, rock that shit. ", 
        "> One can sport a flag of a country they admire without the need of a trace back there.\n\nThat really only works one way but and that's why it's weird. \n\nI don't think there is an Scot/Irish/English/Welsh person alive who would sport the U.S.A flag because they liked Jon Jones, even less the hundreds and thousands that do it at the actual fights.", 
        "Yeah no fuck that, I'm English/Irish (mums english, dads Irish) \nAnd I ain't rocking no other flag other than and English or Irish flag ", 
        "I'm American and I sport the Scottish flag because my gf is Scottish. Yeah.. a bit different than this guy's scenario but I imagine if you have a big connection with someone, all-be-it one-sided as a fan or something, it makes sense to adopt a symbol of pride from the person they admire. I guess it is a little weird but I can't really judge them for it.", 
        "So awesome. Dee is a cutie pie.", 
        "Dat cake", 
        "Dime Piece Dee", 
        "It's Always Sunny has ruined that name for me. Whenever I see it I instantly think \"that God damn bitch.\"", 
        "God dammit Dee!", 
        "BIRD!", 
        "They had a mini laugh-off at the start. Great video", 
        "Used to hate him for the disrespect he gave his opponents, but he sells the fights so everyone makes more money. Works hard, treats fans well, does what he says he's going to do, doesn't pull out of fights.", 
        "can we get a non-tmz mirror up?", 
        "[Here ya go](https://youtu.be/xsdrbB_zifo?t=9)", 
        "thanks!", 
        "Good guy Conor", 
        "Mirror plz.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=10bad1hUSA8\n\nProps to /u/bosom-fondler.", 
        ":) https://streamable.com/wxjo", 
        "Streamable Mirror \n\nhttps://streamable.com/wxjo", 
        "I... am finding it very difficult to hate on this.", 
        "Say what you want, but Conor is such a standup guy. ", 
        "I know the mendes fight was tough but I think his ground game is underrated... \n\nI want to punch myself in the face for that dad joke.  I am so sorry :(", 
        "Connor is one of the only celebritys that when he says he doesn't take this for granted, i actually belive him. He truly seems like he is amazed that this is his life now. ", 
        "Taking fights above his weight class despite having the opportunity to refuse, then making some random fan's day? He's making it difficult to dislike him still. Someone tell him to stop being so affable.", 
        "This is hilarious. This guy has really won me over completely now.", 
        "that's amazing. respect. ", 
        "Jon Jones would never do this.\n\nGo to the apartment of a Conor fan I mean.", 
        "Jon jones never goes to anyone's apartment he just does coke and drives", 
        "I mean maybe if the fan was also his coke dealer.", 
        "Or a pregnant woman and he was driving his car.", 
        "Pretty impressive move by Conor here. You don't see too many multi-million-dollar professional athletes rolling up into some fan's apartment to say hello, do you?", 
        "For those who don't like him, this should at least be a gateway for you to respect him.", 
        "What a fucking boss!!", 
        "Suddenly everyone is a Conor McGregor fan. \n\nWelcome to da family. ", 
        "better late than never :)", 
        "Not a lot of people would do that... classy man. ", 
        "/r/SurpriseAppearances", 
        "Conor impresses me day after day.  Win or lose he's a pretty awesome guy.", 
        "I fucking love Conor.  Its always amazing to see famous people giving something to fans, even if its just his time.", 
        "That is really cool. I love how much he appreciates his fans, McGregor is a good dude. That fan was so happy.", 
        "It is pretty surreal to have a hero standing in your living room, you could see that guy will remember that for the rest of his days. Good watch.", 
        "Definitely, good for that fan.", 
        "What a good human being he is.", 
        "Conor loves his family, his friends and his fans. Good for him.\n\n", 
        "I've been pretty down on CM lately because of all the trash talk but that was pretty amazing. Good on you Connor.\n", 
        "Fuck TMZ, will look for a mirror but I aint giving them shits no click", 
        "https://youtu.be/xsdrbB_zifo?t=9", 
        "Thanks bro", 
        "This shit right here is what wins me over, dudes who have everything in life and yet realize how much they mean to everyone else and how much a little gesture can go.\n\nI wasnt a Conor fan at all in the beginning, but seriously how can you root against this man?", 
        "Love him or hate him, he's a cool fucking dude.", 
        "He is a credit to the community.", 
        "I see you", 
        "After what he did to Aldo I don't want to like him but he makes it pretty difficult lol", 
        "i wouldn't want jon jones crashing any fans apartment", 
        "I don't think I'll ever understand how some of these people go all out over a fighter.", 
        "People do it about sport teams, Lady Gaga etc. It is a weird part of humanity.", 
        "Conor is a true champ and also the people's champ.", 
        "That is so cool to see. He is very humble to take time out for his fans. ", 
        "\"I'm gonna put on a show for you specifically.\"  Fucking awesome.\n\nConor bless.", 
        "Cashin checks with the right hand, signing merch for fans with the left.", 
        "My head would explode", 
        "Conor is awesome to do that. ", 
        "Love this crazy motherfucker.", 
        "That's awesome of Conor!", 
        "Good guy Conor!", 
        "Of course the guy had a topknot hahahaha", 
        "It's a struggle not to like this guy. BUT I AIN'T NO QUITTER! 209 WUT.", 
        "Can't fuckin hate McGregor for shit like this, this is amazing for him to do", 
        "What a guy", 
        "Good guy McGregor", 
        "There's no way tmz made this... Felt like embedded... Leeked footage?", 
        "Yeah too cleanly edited and no shake hand cam ", 
        "no cancerous reporter", 
        "He said he was gonna go in a video the other day and he actually did..  . McGregor has grown on me so much in the past year. From wanting him to lose in the past year to becoming a fan. This dude is different. I want him to accomplish everything he says.", 
        "Im a fan of him but I'd be lying if I said I didn't want to see him lose Atleast once after all the shit he talks lol", 
        "he hypes fights, he shit talking isn't too bad or too personal. he did a bit with RDA talking about how he left Brazil, but other than that most of what he says is to hype fights. he talks money and what he's going to do to his opponent.", 
        "Please have sex with my girlfriend!", 
        "This was such an amazing video.  Although Connor McGregor is known for his trash talk, this video proves that he is truly a good person and loves showing support to his fans who show him the same.  ", 
        "He has always been the most humble guy outside of fight buildup and press conferences and it's always been obvious to see. Can't understand anyone who hates on him.", 
        "Tmz website is fucking cancer ", 
        "Huh, this dudes apartment is like a mile from mine. I wonder what would happen if put a Diaz cutout in my window?", 
        "Youtube link:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_ZofBjfcDQ", 
        "Should've atleast brought a 12pack or a fkn cake", 
        "'I'm a recovering alcoholic and a diabetic' \n\nooooh", 
        "\"So you *are* Irish!\"", 
        "More like Irish-American", 
        "True.", 
        "I hate TMZ but, someone with Conor had to have sold this to them...", 
        "\"The only thing i care about is the cheque and my cheques are SUPER heavyweight\" - Our Lord and Saviour Connor Mcgregor", 
        "It's shot like Embedded. Maybe the UFC are trying to get some publicity.", 
        "such a good guy. Seriously, yeah he's a dick but he's doing his thing selling the fights etc (when in fight mode) \nBut outside the fight game, he's such a down to earth guy, so humble and inspiring for people to be like this even with all that money. So dope this video", 
        "This is great to see.  I might have to pop my head around Hermosa beach more often when Connor is in town.  That fan lives right next to The Chelsea (old Underground) pub.  \nhttps://www.google.com/maps/place/Chelsea+Pub+and+Lounge/@33.8636724,-118.4000765,15z/data=!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0x35a49d55b7f928fe?sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiska6qgaDLAhVHMz4KHV69AWQQ_BIIfjAN\n\nI'm liking Connor more and more these days. Great to see he's human.", 
        "Lots of feels when they are both laughing at each because they're each happy for different reasons. ", 
        "he said the cutout has been up since his fight against max but he didnt have a tattoo in that fight lol\n\nconor is cool as fuck tho ", 
        "I thought he said the flag was from the Holloway fight", 
        "That was awesome!", 
        "Fucking amazing. ", 
        "McGregor looked so excited to see that guy too ... It's why I like the dude.  He seems to be enjoying this in a way a lot of other fighters don't.", 
        "I love McGregor and the Diaz bros, it sucks seeing your favorite fighters fight each other.", 
        "Link to the video? I don't want to watch TMZ, mate!", 
        "https://youtu.be/xsdrbB_zifo?t=9", 
        "McGregor bumping to that future I fuck with him ", 
        "Anybody else notice how dilated that guy's eyes were? Pretty weird, especially because the camera probably had a light on it. ", 
        "Nobody pointing out how Conor won't even wear his Reebok shoes? That's how much you suck Reebok.", 
        "McGregor's delts really pop out in that preview image, holy crap", 
        "Anyone know the guys hat in the video? The white one with the fighting irish stick figure that Conor signs. Is it a Conor hat or anyone have a link? ", 
        "It's an old McGregor Dethrone hat. That was Conor's symbol before the Reebok deal.", 
        "My cousins grew up with him and lived in the same area. If you understood where they came from you would know he appreciates everything he has earned and his fans. He truly does not take it for granted.", 
        "I feel dirty watching anything on TMZ, but actually turned out to be a good video.", 
        "That BOW at the end. Great martial artist at his core.", 
        "This is SOOOOO good! I love this moments.. For a big fan it could be a mind blowing life changer. Yes sir.", 
        "Got a good laugh off the Gucci baseball caps. ", 
        "Should have mirrored it so we don't give TMZ too many clicks", 
        "Ok, I don't like him fighter to fighter, he is sometimes quite disrespectful as fuck. That was cool to see him just be a nice, actual man, not the performer you see on promos and press meetings.", 
        "Dealt with dude on the rolls like boss too!", 
        "Wild. ", 
        " this man is making it impossible for me to hate him!!!", 
        "This is pretty awesome. ", 
        "  TMZ? Gross. \n  ", 
        "I was laughing so much when he said I don't even have those reebok ", 
        "It had to happen haha oh Conor you marvelous King.", 
        "sometimes you wonder if he's even real what a legend!", 
        "I can't believe they would cover something so positive about the dirtbag who verbally assaulted their \"reporter\"!!!!! /s", 
        "I am far from a McGregor fan but it's awesome to appreciate your fans like that", 
        "How can you not be a fan honestly if you enjoy mma at all?", 
        "I spy Hermosa Beach, CA?", 
        "I was waiting for this", 
        "This is awesome", 
        "How has no one mentioned the reebok shoes.  Someone needs to get that fan on reddit so we can indoctrinate him into the reebok circle jerk hate on. ", 
        "FistPose.jpg", 
        "Meeting McGregor made his eyes dilate like he popped a molly. ", 
        "A Mcgrolly", 
        "Im trying so hard to hate him but stuff likes this make it difficult", 
        "TMZ is gross", 
        "McGregor is cool as fuck.", 
        "Felt like a Reebok commercial.", 
        "YES, TMZ DELIVERS WITH THE SEQUEL!", 
        "I'm proud to be upvote this!", 
        "What a Stan! Creepy with the same hairdo. Sheesh. Good on McGregor for being nice to him though", 
        "Its official, Conor is unhateable. ", 
        "Oh shit Connor's in Hermosa Beach! \n", 
        "best fucking man ever! McGregor rullz!!!", 
        "Connor is a man of his word.. I admire that!", 
        "That guys pupils. Woah", 
        "One of the greatest champs of all-time.", 
        "This was so awesome. ", 
        "What a guy.", 
        "Was super cool but you'd think he'd give him a couple of tickets!!", 
        "he said he already had tickets lol", 
        "ah right didn't notice!!", 
        "I really don't understand fanbois. I could never idolize anyone that much.", 
        "He often acts like an asshole, then does this. #McGregorforPresident", 
        "That dudes a bit much, no? I love sports- nba and mma especially- but fucking tearing up and putting up cardboard cut outs is getting to a weird stage.  \n\nA guy like that has to be on reddit/r/mma, /u/duckmadfish? ", 
        "I had similar thoughts, the guy also had the same haircut Connor previously had and was copping his gear. That's just a little bit too much for me. Surprised we didn't see some Buffalo Bill type shit.", 
        "Probably had a weird room he was gonna shackle Conor in until he saw the bodyguards.", 
        "There's obviously similar types congregating here judging by the downvotes.", 
        "I thought he was rich. What's he doing in some plebs household dirtying his millionaire shoes.", 
        "Lmao I thought this was pretty funny", 
        "This remind me of the old Jon Jones.  I just hope Conor doesn't end up letting this all go to his head and become a complete fuck up.", 
        "Conor is 100% real. I dont see how this guy has haters.", 
        "ITT: People that don't understand marketing", 
        "Hey man I think you dropped  [this](http://i.imgur.com/IOzb9cT.jpg)", 
        "haha it's been a while since i've seen a fedora meme, i missed it", 
        "Anybody else cringing at that guy a little bit?", 
        "he's on another level,  cringed a bit myself. ", 
        "He's a super fan, it's to be expected", 
        "\"I'll stop by tomorrow when I've got the full TMZ crew and they pay me\"  - C. McGregor", 
        "Can't fault him for it. I'd be exactly the same. ", 
        "I don't fault him at all.  I love Conor.  It just seemed slightly set up.", 
        "Now you mention it, the Reebok bit...", 
        "Dude was practically gargling McGregor's balls. ", 
        "I officially respect Conor McGregor more now. Still not a fan, but close. All his antics and trash talking for a year to Jose Aldo made me not a fan of his.", 
        "why? Couldn't you see how effective it was? He destroyed aldo before they ever got in the octagon. This is half the battle.", 
        "I only half agree every time someone says that. How much did Aldo actually understand when McGregor talked? \n\nI know this Saturday I'm predicting McGregor via KO round 2. ", 
        "[This would have been my reaction if Conor visited my apartment](http://images.memes.com/meme/684774)", 
        "Nice gesture. Good on him for marketing himself. I still hope he's spitting out all his bloody teeth on Saturday. ", 
        "How is this not fake as hell when the guy half a mile away in the supposedly spontaneous moment is mic'd up...? Or did they dub him in screaming later? But anyway... Obviously the guy is a legit Conor lover, look at his hair. Next thing he'll have the same tats.", 
        "It's pretty obvious that they let the guy know they were coming ahead of time,  that's standard and proper for media engagements. ", 
        "directional mics can pick up alot.", 
        "He wasnt mic'd up, he was just 20 feet away screaming at the top of his lungs dude, c'mon", 
        "Reminds me of this Fedor classic:\n\n[https://i.imgur.com/gM2MC5f.gif](https://i.imgur.com/gM2MC5f.gif)\n\nNo doubt inspired by it.", 
        "Can you find the Big Foot Silva version?", 
        "In my mind I can hear the head hit the camera ", 
        "H-how have I never seen that?! \n\n", 
        "In retrospect that was actually a pretty good fight considering it was Fedor vs guy from a tire shop.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He didn't fight Wanderlei, further indicating your ignorance on the subject.", 
        "Which years would those be - out of curiosity?\n\n2001 - 2003? When he beat Goodridge, Fujita, Herring, Schilt, and Sobral? Or are all of those guys cans now? \n\nOr 2004 - 2006? (2-0-1 against Noguiera, beat Mirko, Coleman, Randleman, and Hunt)\n\nSure, there were a lot of cans sprinkled in all throughout 2000-2009, but this sounds a lot more like revisionist history.", 
        "2006-2016", 
        "So going 3-4 on the ass end of his career against Coleman, Hunt, Dan Henderson, Antonio Silva, Sylvia, Werdum and Arlovski?\n\nWhere did Fedor touch you, dude? Why such a hater?", 
        "Because everyone strokes his meat all the time. I was fine with it back in 05 when he beat cro cop but it continued when he was fighting hong man choi. \n\nThe Werdum fight was the most satisfying thing in a while given that at the time he was a UFC reject and had lost a bit of his name for that reason.", 
        "That \"can\" knocked out the current #6 HW in the UFC...\n\n...in the first round. ", 
        "lot of people don't know that lindland (guy lawler kills in the OP) also fought fedor. \n\n\\#BodogNeverDie", 
        ">pretty good fight\n\nThat's an understatement. That fight is one of my all time favorites.", 
        "What fight?", 
        "Brett Rogers", 
        "Every time I see this gif I try to imagine the amount of power behind a Fedor punch with the much behind it *shivers*", 
        "Yeah but at that point you're no longer imagining a punch, but a beheading.", 
        "The sound of that punch connecting was insane. One of the loudest punches I've heard in a fight.", 
        "There's video taken from the crowd and you can hear it so clearly even from 50 yards away.  ", 
        "This gif always seems strange as it makes the camera lens seem huge.", 
        "Now that you brought it up, YOU RUINED IT", 
        "I think of it more like a lens at a distance behind a plexiglass shield.", 
        "But the blood follows the camera angle.", 
        "oh, good call. maybe it's attached to the plexiglass shield which is a few feet away?", 
        "It is", 
        "blast shield obvi", 
        "Let's get Dexter out here to do some splatter analysis ", 
        "Blood Spatter. The \"L\" is for lumberjack. ", 
        "Such a horrible last few seasons and ending.", 
        "Couldn't recognize Robbie with the facial hair.", 
        "Only way to go. If you have a big round baby head, and especially if you're balding or have a deep widow's peak, the beard is the only way to go. I've always thought Robbie and also BJ Penn were prime candidates for a beard. ", 
        "I can't imagine it on BJ haha", 
        "Imagine Robbie Lawler with a beard, only smaller. ", 
        "What do you do if you can't grow a beard?", 
        "die alone. ", 
        ":(", 
        "TRT", 
        "TRT makes you bald. It's testosterone that causes baldness. ", 
        "It should make you grow a mean beard, tho, yeah? ", 
        "Nope", 
        "What about them women that get sex changes to become men? Every one I've ever seen on tv has had a big thick beautiful beard. Like one I could never grow. How are women growing fuller beards than I can? I just figured it was t.", 
        "Because they stop shaving, I know plenty of women whod be hairy as fuck if they didn't manage their facial hair", 
        "That's not why hahaha.  Women don't naturally grow beards.", 
        "Suffer, obviously. ", 
        "I genuinely thought it was Hendricks... woops. ", 
        "Me too.", 
        "I saw the fighters name and still thought it could be Hendricks.\n\nMakes me wonder if Hendricks might see a resurgence of power and find that extra gear he has been lacking if he just shaves it off. Kind of like a reverse Samson.", 
        "Hendricks is going bald. His shave is long overdue.", 
        "Lots of people speculate that it's exactly gear that he's lacking. ", 
        "Took me almost a full minute. I read that three times, kept assuming you missed a word somewhere because the sentence didn't seem right, and thought, yeah dude, that's exactly what I said, and you didn't even have a joke like I did.\n\nBut then...", 
        "Drugs tests come in, Hendricks muscles go out. Can't explain that.", 
        "Way to grant the assumption of innocence there.", 
        "Why would I? I'm not an authority or sanctioning body, so my opinions are irrelevant. \nJust let me lay out dank memes in peace man.", 
        "You didn't get the memo? Innocent until proven guilty isn't a thing anymore! ^(fwiw I upvoted)", 
        "BBQ ribs come in, Hendricks payday goes out. Can't explain that.", 
        "Pig Rig", 
        "They should've used the Frank Trigg - Lawler gif for that.  That shit was brutal without even adding anything to it.", 
        "this satisfies me greatly", 
        "http://imgur.com/WY3lX\n", 
        "How the fuck did he get away with that last uppercut WTF the dude was sitting on the floor for about 2 seconds and then he swings", 
        "You go until you're told to stop. Robbie waited because he thought he would be told to stop. Wasn't told to stop. Then swung. It's on the ref. ", 
        "If you're the ref and one of the guys is getting mauled up against the ropes no less, you should be right on top of the action.\n\nThe ref looks like he had to come running across the entire ring to come and stop them like Mazzagatti.", 
        "Fuck, thanks for the heads up. That it makes it even scarier for Trigg after the fact - while becoming a ref you really start to see how fucked you were in some fights. ", 
        "Ohhhh, the one where Trigg was out on his feet and Lawler obliterated him while he sunk to the canvas. Forgot about that one... vicious.", 
        "According to Trigg, he almost literally killed him.\n\n\nhttp://www.bjpenn.com/mmanews/frank-trigg-robbie-lawler-fight-nearly-killed/", 
        "Holy shit.", 
        "|Old-school fight fans may remember...2007\n\n\nI'll be over there. Just...drinking all of the beer. ", 
        "remember when everyone was a tuf noob? they're weathered fight fan veterans who've been watching MMA for a decade now. ", 
        "That's exactly what I thought of! Watching MMA archives on Justin.TV when I was a new fan, not knowing anybody and constantly being laughed at in chat when I was asking obvious questions about old Pride shows. You would have just missed the cut for \"old school\" fight fans according to this article if you started watching just for Brock Lesnar!", 
        "Just so you know you should type > instead of | and it does it automatically. \n\no >This\n\n>Becomes this", 
        "Watch out, man. Linking to bjpenn.com is punishable by death in here.", 
        "What's up with BJPENN.com? Is it a clickbait style site?", 
        "Not gonna lie. I saw OPs description of the article, saw the source website, half expected the headline to read \"Frank Trigg claims ref stopped fight with Lawler too early\"", 
        "Trig almost died.", 
        "RIP", 
        "...In peace.", 
        "[garbage gif ](http://49.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m6vptwoF951ry1rm7o1_250.gif) ", 
        "Dick move throwing that last shot, it wasn't instinctive, he had enough time to see Trigg was sleeping.", 
        "Saved me searching nonetheless, have this upvote.", 
        "I think I got a concussion just from watching that.", 
        "I watched it twice and had to go to the ER for observation.", 
        "did u died? :(", 
        "Unfortunately, yes. ", 
        "i wtached it threee tiems an d i hav brian damgage", 
        "\"Here lies /u/Mookyhands. He watched it four times.\"", 
        "I want to know where that ref was where Robbie had enough time to wind up one last bomb on an already out Trigg.", 
        "My biggest claim to fame is I wrestled Lawler in 8th grade to a tie. Even at 13 he looked like a full grown man.", 
        "They didn't have overtime?  I'm not much younger than you, but when I wrestled if there was a tie after the normal match time, there was a 1 minute \"sudden death\" overtime round (first takedown wins).  Then, if if it was still tied after that, they had a double overtime round that was 30 seconds.  Whoever scored first in the match got to pick top or bottom.  If the person on bottom escaped, then they won.  Otherwise the person on top won.  ", 
        "> a 1 minute \"sudden death\" overtime round\n\nWhich against Lawler would mean literal sudden death.", 
        "dude almost faced 5th round Lawler. ", 
        "For whatever reason in middle school duels in Iowa there was no overtime. In high school there as overtime and every match was decided. My dad went to the same high school as Lawler (Bettendorf) and Robbie's coach was my dads assistant coach when he wrestled at Bettendorf. ", 
        "Maybe it's recent thing? I wrestled in Iowa middle school about 12 years ago and we had overtime the way MuffinMopper describes. I remember that very well because the match I was most proud of was a victory during double overtime.", 
        "I've found that middle school wrestling rules tend to be skewed quite a bit. If it was just a duel then I could see how the coaches could say fuck it and just let it be a draw, since middle school records mean nothing anyway in a lot of places.", 
        "Hahaha I picture you all gangly and skinny enough the spandex singlet was loose on you and then announcement comes on:\n\n'next up, /u/dongstick fights *blank*... And a literal huge 30 year old man walks onto the mat.'", 
        "He looks like Hendricks, this is so strange.", 
        "HTML5 Video \n\n\n[Desktop version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/o8HymNm/) (16.87%). \n\n\n[Mobile version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/o8HymNm/?minified=true) (2.87%). \n\n\n----------------------------------- \n\n\n^[info](http://offsided.com/about_bots/) ^| ^[feedback](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=wonglik) ^| [^Upload](http://offsided.com/upload/)\n\n", 
        "Good bot", 
        "I was kinda shocked for a split second.", 
        "Was not ready for that.", 
        "And that was the last time anyone saw Matt Linland...", 
        "wow, this was less than 2 years after that scary vitor KO where he was out cold for a long ass time. lindland has taken some scary shots. ", 
        "Now coach of USA Greco ", 
        "yeah, sure buddy. How's he going to coach USA Greco WITH NO HEAD?!?", 
        "And McGregor fans think Robbie would lose to Connor. ", 
        "Is this style of play an option on the EA Sports game?\nA murder mode would definitely make this a popular game.", 
        "Reminds me of this hockey game for Sega when I was a kid where you could straight up chainsaw guys in half and decapitate with your stick etc.\n\nBut yea they would never go for that, avoiding the bad image and social stigma tied to mma", 
        "Yes!  Mutant hockey league I think. ", 
        "Damn not even like a hidden cheat code mode.\nDo new consoles even do cheat codes?\n\nThose were the days.\nGame genie RIP.", 
        "It deserves to be up there.. The gif is just beautiful ", 
        "That's just a cut.", 
        "\"It's only a flesh wound, hold still!\"", 
        "Somebody get Stitch in here!", 
        "But Stitch was never my friend :O", 
        "watch out chad mendez might try and scratch it open", 
        "What... They cut off the most brutal punch which is the follow up on the ground.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uwD_xIUukls", 
        "[This is his most brutal IMO](https://youtu.be/LK6nGnoj6qI?t=49s)", 
        "BRUTALITY!", 
        "/r/tarantinogifs.", 
        "This actually looks real as fuck. ", 
        "I actually jumped at my desk at work. I was expecting I knock out but not that haha", 
        "God forbid the ufc gets any promotion because they decided to take an old ass strikeforce clip down", 
        "The Fedor / Brett Rogers one should be there instead", 
        "Damn that under the left shoulder punch was nasty.  Definitely a great stun to a knock out.", 
        "This combo was beautiful, the way he straightened his legs out after he knocked him out as well was brutal", 
        "Ughhh this is the one where he straightened out Lindland's limbs after killing him.  I remember people saying he was like rubbing in the KO or something but I also heard that you're supposed to straighten someone out who's been KO'd like that?  I know Lindland and Lawler were both Militech fighters sooo what was the deal with that?", 
        "Dude. That's totally photoshop.", 
        "Probably not, editing video in Photoshop is a pain", 
        "Jesus fuck thats Robbie Lawler? when was this? and what steroids was he taking?", 
        "This was probably like 2007 or something.  ", 
        "You're on steroids ", 
        "I wonder if Herb would let this fight continue? /s", 
        "RIP McGregor", 
        "Strikeforce in stl. I was there. Only live MMA event I've been to; it was glorious. ", 
        "Jesus Christ.", 
        "Ah.... just looks like a sore toe. He'll be ok.", 
        "that scared me at first...", 
        "Straighten his legs out, Lawler!", 
        "I watched this 20x. Thanks.", 
        "Clean boxing, right there!", 
        "Rory needs to grow another beard. ", 
        "Lindland is a highlight reel in the worst way.\n\nI also enjoyed when Vitor knocked him out and lindland's legs immediately go stiff.  And there's one more that's kind of funny but I can't remember off the top of my head.", 
        "Only slightly disturbing.", 
        "Can't wait for 'Mothers Against Violent Sports' to get hold of this!", 
        "Not sure what I expected but holy shit that wasn't it.", 
        "Man what's up with imgur? I can't look at any gifs on my ipad now ;_;", 
        "FATALITY!!", 
        "took his head clean off!", 
        "Where is the redditor that makes dbz gifs? This would be great dbz style!", 
        "I'm way too high for this. Just flinched when that dude's head came off.", 
        "Oh man ... I want Mr. Miyagi back. ", 
        "There should be a sub of these something like /r/reallifedoodles but for fatalities. /r/reallifefatalities.", 
        "Poor Matt Lindland also took a nasty KO from Vitor back in Affliction. Probably best to hang em up after a couple of those. ", 
        "Inb4 someone thinks it's real", 
        "Knocked his block off.", 
        "That actually made me gasp for a second. Hadn't seen the fight or the gif before", 
        "Conor is fucking nuts if he wants to fight this guy. ", 
        "I can see why, there's blood all over that ring.", 
        "Reminds me of himself getting knocked out. By Nick Diaz. \nhttp://i.imgur.com/4Cfy3Rh.gif", 
        "Pretty sweet but the actual finish is still more terrifying. I remember being actually worried about Lindland when I watched that live.", 
        "Love Matt Lindland.  Great wrestler, always ready to get KTFO.  And when people interview him about it, he gets super pissed.  One of the great old school fighters.  ", 
        "/r/Unexpected", 
        "HE LEAKIN", 
        "My brain tried to tell me that his head really came off for a second, very well done.", 
        "Where's the Holm vs Rousey one?", 
        "/u/grimninja117", 
        "10/10 savage!", 
        "tis but a scratch", 
        "As it should be. ", 
        "Holy shit!", 
        "how about the flying knee on joey villasenor but joey just explodes into goo?\n", 
        "You may want to put a NSFW tag on this one", 
        "Fake\n\nEdit: u guys with your down votes...its clearly fake. ", 
        "No shit.", 
        "Fuck, really?\n\n:O", 
        "You can tell by the pixels", 
        "You can tell it's fake by the way it is", 
        "... Well I thought it was funny.", 
        "What the hell are you talking about? Don't you remember the first victory by decapitation in the octagon?", 
        "That cage is a hexagon...", 
        "Right you are", 
        "That right to the body is the scariest punch of the combo, sheeeiit.", 
        "He never hit him in the body.... ", 
        "Conor would still say that's just a bruise.", 
        "isnt that hendricks", 
        "I've never gasped at a gif before. For a split second I thought it was real. I definitely didn't expect that. ", 
        "i hope conor doesn't go up against lawler", 
        " [My favorite lawler gif](https://zippy.gfycat.com/CreamyOfficialGrison.mp4)", 
        "good god http://i.imgur.com/v99iLEJ.webm\n\nedit: love the downvotes keep em coming", 
        "It's like Conor got off meth ", 
        "Hahahahaha", 
        "ever see the Mechanic ? http://stronglifts.com/wp-content/uploads/christian-bale-batman.jpg", 
        "btw its the machinist. and fantastic movie if you don't mind walking away and shaking your head as it messes with your mind kinda like enter the void. ", 
        "145 Not even once ", 
        "It looks like he's got the curse from pirates of the Caribbean \n\nAnd in the top one he's in the moonlight", 
        "No you're confused, it's actually Ricketty Cricket", 
        "Conor Methgregor", 
        "-Mike Tyson", 
        "-Kenny Florian", 
        "buwahahaha!!!!", 
        "Mac Tyson", 
        "-Kenny Fl.....I'll see myself out ", 
        "You're on steroids", 
        "I think you'd be surprised GUHHHH", 
        "Mike Tython", 
        "Thpinal", 
        "He should never go back to 145", 
        "But he's gonna hit for about 20 pounds harder though.", 
        "Can we see how he performs first? ", 
        "And fight at what weight 155? I honestly think that he can do both, but 170 is a bad idea. ", 
        "do we know how much he weighed the day of the fight vs aldo?", 
        "He looks a lot healthier here", 
        "i seriously doubt he will ever defend that title. the only thing it means to him is that he would have 2.", 
        "Then he should give up the 145 pound belt asap.", 
        "Severe weight cuts just shouldn't be allowed in MMA/Boxing. Conor and Nate coming in \"comfortable\" for this fight proves that the sport would be better off if guys fight at close to the weight they train at, instead of trying to cheat the system by dehydrating.\n\nif USADA can test people 3 times a month for roids, I don't see why there couldn't be a way to monitor fighter weight too while training and make them fight around that weight.", 
        "I don't think he will. He seems to have embraced his freedom to gain.\n\nI doubt he would announce anything before an RDA fight had happened though, and it would suck if FW was held up until then.\n\nTime will tell.", 
        "If I was these guys I would not want to. It is fucking dangerous.", 
        "For real, it's dangerous. ", 
        "I don't think he ever will, he'll beat Nate then, at 200 beat RDA and relinquish his 145lb title", 
        "Crazy to think that this is all AFTER the IV ban. ", 
        "Lets see how the fight goes first..", 
        "Maybe the photo was at a bad angle/bad lighting or something but...damn he looks seriously messed in that top picture. It can't be healthy for a human to be reduced to skin and bone like that.", 
        "He looks like a psycho in that top pic.", 
        "I'm not denying that he was looking bad for the cut but that top image has been contrast boosted to the max just look a bit closer. The blacks are blaaaaack", 
        "I cant even tell if people are being serious with the bad angle and lighting crap. Anyway, I hope for McGregor's sake he's not fighting at 145 ever again", 
        "Looks damn near anorexic", 
        "[Neither](http://i.imgur.com/0DsxmYT.jpg)", 
        "Holy shit that looks like Liam Neeson.", 
        "[Take your pick.\n](http://www2.cdn.sherdog.com/_images/pictures/20151211035939_5D3_4937.JPG)\n\nDo [any](http://media.ufc.tv/189/Articles/461693084.jpg) of [these](http://www.independent.ie/incoming/article30916345.ece/ALTERNATES/h342/952326.jpg) look like a bad [angle](http://www2.cdn.sherdog.com/_images/pictures/20150710052837_6DX_0148.JPG)?\n\n\n\nedit: Slight sarcasm here, chill out.", 
        "Some Angela's Ashes shit right there. I haven't seen an Irishman look that skinny since 1850.", 
        "Eyyy I see what you're trying to do", 
        "Don't worry I thought it was funny", 
        "3rd pic is Paddy Holohan. Here's McGregor from the same card...\n\nhttp://i.imgur.com/yriVawb.jpg", 
        "dat bulge no homo ", 
        "Damn I got 50 pounds on this guy and he's twice my size wtf", 
        "It was a joke, but okay.", 
        "A good one, too. ", 
        "Are you saying all Irish look alike? RACIST!!!!", 
        "Lol, \"these\" isn't even Conor.", 
        "its not even like conor has a shoulder tattoo or has red hair", 
        "The \"any\" one looks like Emile Hirsch right before he died in 'Into the Wild'", 
        "It's not as if Conor has a huge tattoo on his chest that is easily recognizable ", 
        "The Irish, they all look the same.", 
        "He looks like my brother who lives on the council estate. Hair like a hipster. Dressed like a pikey in a tracksuit. ", 
        "It's his eyes I think, very dark and sunken in the photo. Tbh he looks good and lean, but I know people who are just lean like that so I don't jump to the conclusion that it's unhealthy or anything.", 
        "It wasn't. He looked wrecked at most if not all of his FW cuts in the UFC.", 
        "True, but at least during the fights he's re-hydrated to look human. I've seen all of his UFC fights (re-watched most of them prior to this fight, which was actually pretty easy given all the early finishes) and parts of weigh-ins but even so that photo was shocking. I'd really like to see a legits medical study on the effects of weight-cutting on fighters, I have to think there are some damaging effects caused by doing that to your body.", 
        "There are actually proven [benefits](https://news.usc.edu/63669/fasting-triggers-stem-cell-regeneration-of-damaged-old-immune-system/) to fasting...although I don't know if cutting weight would be considered fasting. You also don't want to make cutting weight too extreme because it can lead to [Rhabdomyolysis] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhabdomyolysis)", 
        "Most of the athletes who die from weight cutting suffer from kidney failure. So in my completely uneducated speculation, I'd have to imagine weight cutting damages the kidneys the most.", 
        "I still think he has looked a bit sucked in at the fights but he sure does perform like it has no effect on him at all. But yea, compared to the weigh in's it's nothing.\n\nhttp://img.bleacherreport.net/img/article/media_slots/photos/002/146/928/hi-res-8683ea85d0b97755c98cf34f6661967e_crop_exact.jpg?w=650&h=432&q=85\n\nI'd like to see him chase that multi-division championship but I really don't think he should be fighting below 155.", 
        "He looked like my grandpa when he was dying I swear.", 
        "he straight up looks like layne staley in that photo", 
        "  He looks like the fucking [Crypt Keeper](http://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/uncyclopedia/images/c/c4/CryptKeeper.gif/revision/latest?cb=20100602135927) in that shot. \n", 
        "It's not the angle or lighting, he just looks horrible. Every time he makes 145 I cringe a bit. ", 
        "Meh, I weigh 145 and look fine. It's just his muscle tone. If you get ripped at 145, you get ripped. Hence the word, ripped.  ", 
        "I'm ripped and I got to this point without making my face look like the walking dead. ", 
        "Both his eyes and mouth are open slightly wider and the lighting is poor in the first pic. Or maybe he was just on extreme amounts of methamphetamine. Who knows. ", 
        "Man I feel like Edgar deserves his shot though. ", 
        "i dont he should be fighting right now if he deserved a shot ", 
        "Edgar will get his shot. It will be against Holloway or Aldo for the vacant belt... I would like to have seen him beat Conor though", 
        "I bet he waits to get the 155 belt before vacating the 145 belt, just to say he held both. If he fails to get the 155, he'll probably try for 170 while still holding 145. Then probably toss the 145 belt if he can get that one. If he fails at both, then I bet he'll go back down to defend his 145 belt. ", 
        "I don't think Conor will vacate his belt until he has another title though. So here's hoping that doesn't happen anytime too soon, and that he has to defend his belt at least once in the meantime.", 
        "Yup Edgar can move to 155 and 145 easily.  Prbly even 135. I see him trying to hold 2 belts", 
        "He can 100% make 135 with no problem. He didn't cut anything to hit 155, and a 20 pound cut is really easy. ", 
        "With the talks before about Aldo also having a hard time cutting down to 145 pounds, I'm thinking he'll just tough it out because he definitely be champion again at that weight if they vacate the title.", 
        "Sad, we will never know. So i secretly hope Frankie mauls everyone and starts advocating to fight McGregor at 155", 
        "I don't know if Frankie could beat either Holloway or Aldo but I'd love to see him fight both.", 
        "Edgar would roast Holloway ", 
        "Pretty sure he beats Holloway. Aldo, not so much.", 
        "Is Holloway that good?", 
        "Definitely, he finished Cub Swanson. ", 
        "Holloway is the only person McG has fought in the ufc that went the distance. \n\nIn addition to being pretty tough he's a great striker, with a good understanding of movement and angles \n\nDon't think he has lost a fight since McG a few years ago as well. McG should be made to defend the FW title at least once imo \n", 
        "He's good, top 5, but I can't see him beating Edgar.", 
        "I hope Edgar jumps to 55 and beats RDA before Connor get a shot then Frankie can make Connor wait", 
        "Holy shit I didn't realize I wanted this fight.....", 
        " Yes please", 
        "That one especially. I remember being totally shocked when i saw him that night. It was crazy how terrible he looked. He looked great the next night tho.", 
        "\"looked great\" i guess but he only landed 1 punch yes it had power and it was precise and stepped away at the right time i just wanted to atleast see 2 mins worth of fighting with leg kicks etc. so yea \"looked great\" for 9 seconds ", 
        "I meant he physically looked great, as opposed to how Gaunt and tired he did the previous night.", 
        "''Hey, you knocked out your opponent too quick, you suck''", 
        "He's already lowish bodyfat, and then cuts 20lbs of water, he's merely just dehydrated. No serious side effects exist for being dehydrated to this extent if you properly rehydrate afterwards.", 
        "his body fat isn't that low.\n\nnot that eyes count for much when it comes to this, but I do feel confident in saying Conor could shed a fair bit more fat before worrying about anything negative. He's lean but still looks fairly soft. Assuming he hasn't had to sweat to hit this weight. When he blew up after previous weigh-ins, he never looked soft, ever, because he wasn't carrying excess fat.\n\nThis is the difference between real 170 fighters, they do what Conor did at 145 to reach where Conor is at now. That's how much smaller he is.", 
        "I am an amateur MMA fighter,  I cut from 170 in January to 145 in the beginning of February. The last week I did 15 pounds of water and was over 160 when I fought. I do this every time and I have no problem with this just being a part of the game. With this said you're seriously seriously naive to say there are no serious side effects, especially with how big of a cut Conor makes.  I could go on and on about why it's bad, but I'm on mobile and don't want to do paragraphs on my phone. ", 
        "I have cut weight for many TKD competitions, if you leave yourself with far too much to cut (Tim Boetsch) and go through with it, there will be serious side effects to your performance and if you get knocked out it will be more likely to be more than just a temp loss of consciousness, but if you plan it correctly (Conor has essentially unlimited funds for someone to get the timing right and to give him a perfect meal plan), there are no serious side effects.", 
        "You do realize he's cutting around 25 pounds of water right? 24 hours is not enough time to rehydrate your brain from that cut. It doesn't matter how much money you throw at the problem. Weight cutting is also unhealthy in general. Have a doctor do blood work or check out your liver during a real weight cut and they'll freak the fuck out. But that's cool dude you do tkd so you know it all. ", 
        "You brought up being an \"amateur MMA fighter\" which supposedly made you an expert on weight cutting, i brought up tkd because I've been cutting weight since I was 14 so i'm an expert too right ?", 
        "The difference is you're the one claiming it's healthy and I'm the one telling you that you should be honest with yourself and not pretend it's a game. How much weight do you cut for tkd? I cut 25 pounds for my competitions and I understand it's not healthy. ", 
        "A person can't rehydrate that fast, especially their brain. Also, no more IV's. ", 
        "They can if they do it correctly, Conor is simply peaking at the right time so he can make weight and then immediately taking the correct amount of water, electrolytes and minerals to rehydrate. There is not a huge difference between rehydrating orally and intravenously anyway.", 
        "He rehydrated rectally ", 
        "Source? Or sarcasm?", 
        "We'd have to ask ido...", 
        "He wasn't really that small. The lighting was just off and GSP is huge. ", 
        "-kenny florian\n\n\n-youre on steroids\n\nam i doing this right?", 
        "No", 
        "Underrated comment. Top bantz.", 
        "lol\n", 
        "I got this reference. Yaaaas!", 
        "explain pls ", 
        "Yup, 155 seems to be where he should settle in at. He seems to be carrying quite a bit of weight at 170. Wonder how it will effect his meuvment and his kicks.", 
        "he added back and shoulder muscle for punching power. he will move just as agile and loose as 145, but with an even harder and faster punch. ", 
        "I can't find the source, but there was an interview were he said that he didnt lose any speed whatsoever. He's just as fast as he was when he was fighting Aldo.", 
        "My thoughts too. He obviously looks healthier *as a person* at 170, but just going off this pic it doesn't look like he trained intensely. ", 
        "I bet he still meuves pretty well. ", 
        "I've never seen movement spelled like that", 
        "Yeah, I wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt, maybe he's not a native speaker. His tag says US though... So I don't know", 
        "Dey don't spell movement like he spells movement.", 
        "Playing touchbutt is a +4 to movement skill.  ", 
        "You guys are trying so hard to make a meme out of this it's hilarious.", 
        "Yes its hilarious!!! HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!", 
        "Whose alt are you then?", 
        "huh?  I was agreeing with you.  TBH I'm still laughing about it.. HAHAHAHAHAH!!! OMG They are trying soooo hard!!!! ", 
        "I'm just curious is all. Why do you feel the need to hide behind a different username when making these posts? Nice edit by the way, you've clearly spent a lot of time thinking about this.", 
        "OMG You're right I'm hiding behind an alt account, because this shit is SOOO HILARIOUS!!! OMG, I CANT EVEN!!!!  How did you know????!?!  \n\nI spent so much time thinking about it.... BECAUSE ITS FUCKING HILARIOUS HAHAHAHAH!!!! OMG!!!", 
        "He weighed in at 168, so you'd suggest he just didn't cut and basically walks around at about that weight, which means that 155 should be a comfortable weight for him. ", 
        "It could be either way. If the weight was coming off easy, an extra 2 lbs is nothing. Like if he weighed 180 that morning, you sit in the sauna for 10 or 15 mins and come out at 170, you'll still lose another lb or two sitting around for another few hours because you aren't depleted.", 
        "If he walks around at 170-175, then I'd say he's a little bit small even for lightweight. Remember some top fighters in 155 including RDA, they walk around at about 180 or slightly above. I'd say (hypothetically) somewhere between FW and LW would be the perfect division for Conor. ", 
        "Given that he's still the champ at 145, he isn't really going to bulk up to a 180lb walking weight right now, leaving him unable to make weight in the class he's the champion of.\n\nHe could add muscle to his frame and bulk up more permanently once he actually leaves featherweight for good. ", 
        "I can guarantee that 155 is by no means comfortable to do, but just not as rough and excruciating as 145.  ", 
        "Wasn't he 170+ just last week? Or was that just a rumour? 155 looks like it'll be perfect for him. I doubt he'll ever be walking around at 190+ like Robbie or the other killers in welterweight.", 
        "This week he's been waking up under 170 and hitting 170 after eating two breakfasts (that's what he said anyway)", 
        "Cheers mate", 
        ">Wasn't he 170+ just last week? Or was that just a rumour?\n\nWell, weight can fluctuate a bit from week to week, especially when they're so active. \n\nJust not eating or drinking anything and taking a dump before the weigh in could make the difference between 172 and 168, but that wouldn't really count as a cut.", 
        "Yeah that is what I reckon happened. He basically just took steps to get his weight as low as possible without a proper cut. He looks fucking good.", 
        "I just imagined McGregor taking a 4 pound shit and it scared me.", 
        "dey don't shit like I shit ", 
        "I shit deez tings.", 
        "Yep, you're right. Hadn't realised it was 172. Actually, I still struggle to remember how little a pound actually is - automatically thinking in terms of kilos! ", 
        "After seeing this I agree", 
        "I agree just cos I have zero interest in seeing him fight Edgar, Aldo, Faber, would make me kinda sad to see him beat Holloway again I like Max", 
        "100%", 
        "He did look a lot healthier for the Aldo cut.", 
        "This picture is from the Aldo cut though", 
        "Lol sorry it is.   I remember him looking worse in some of his earlier cuts", 
        "Yes I thought this was for the Mendes fight which was ultimate skeletor mode. ", 
        "Got that skeletor action goin' ", 
        "pic?", 
        "[Skeletor isn't skinny](http://i.imgur.com/KBkV03F.jpg)", 
        "...my childhood didn't make any sense.", 
        "Skelereem!", 
        "Uberskel", 
        "Why are their no horses on He-Man's planet? \n\nUberskel ate them all for the gainz.", 
        "If you told me the top picture was Paddy Holohan trick-or-treating I'd believe you.", 
        "Oh shit 145 looks photoshopped now. 2 breakfast Conor looking solid.", 
        "2 breakfast Conor is officially a thing ", 
        "like sea level Cain, it's basic fighter evolutions", 
        "It might actually be. Look how dark those shadows are, either someone's messed with the contrast or they had a really weird lighting setup at the weigh in. Either way it's exaggerating the difference. Of course there's still a big difference though.", 
        "He just didn't dehydrate himself, and put on a little muscle. ", 
        "I mean sure the angle of the photo and lighting makes him look more starved in the older picture but still a massive difference.", 
        "No, that's actually 90% post production. Pulling up the shadows and whatnot. Losing some water doesn't make your shadows black.\n\nThis is just another Reddit shitpost.", 
        "That shit ain't 90% post production. It's just a different photo with different lighting. The difference is still absolutely huge. Compared to how he's looking now he was damn near gaunt:\n\nhttp://i1.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article6998106.ece/ALTERNATES/s615b/Aldo-McGregor-weigh-in.jpg\n\nSame picture, little difference from OPs that isn't due entirely to the lower quality. I mean, people were talking about how gaunt he looked [when he showed up to the weigh in,](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/3wg170/jose_aldo_vs_conor_mcgregor_weighin_staredown/cxvx433) let alone now that he's 30 pounds heavier. \n\n145 is just way too light for him.", 
        "You have to be blind not to notice that the contrast on the second picture is much, much lower than in the first. Yes, there's a difference. It's also very exaggerated. Being lean won't make your shadows turn black.\n\nFuck, I always new redditors were idiots, but I'm still surprised every time I'm voted down for speaking the obvious truth. You guys are perfect morons.", 
        "lol, I went to film school and have been a photography enthusiast for about fifteen years. I noticed the contrast, it just doesn't make that much of a difference. The biggest difference is 1) how fucking thin he was compared to now and 2) the angles of the primary and secondary lighting. And one is much more important than the other.", 
        "\"I always new redditors were idiots\" LOL", 
        "Oh, fuck me for missing a k in my drunken stupor. The point still stands. This place is a circle-jerk of morons, and the contrast of picture 2 is washed out in comparison with picture 1. I mean, his tattoo is much darker in 1. How can anyone not a complete fucking fool not notice? Are you people completely new to pictures?", 
        "Looks like the black shadows aren't so much from post processing as from the intense and insanely bright overhead lighting blowing out the image, causing the camera to under expose the scene. I see similar results in my light box using my DSLR. ", 
        "Yay! You used \"new\" correctly! You're a fast learner and I'm proud of you.", 
        "I thought the biggest difference was the 23 pounds he lost, but now that you mention it, yeah, it must just be the contrast.  ", 
        "It's always sad when you try to call out other people's intelligence and you make a spelling / homonym mistake.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Well, fucking duh. That's what the fucking picture is supposed to show.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Holy shit the first pic looks like he's stranded on a desert island and sees a rescue plane flying overhead!", 
        "Immediately he flexes the double biceps to intimidate the plane. ", 
        "He finds a volleyball from the crash and draws Artem's face on it.", 
        "The ball rolls into a tree and knocks down a coconut...\n\n\"YEEEEEEEES ARTEM\"", 
        "[He looked so fucking dead in his last weigh in](http://www.punditarena.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/501055654.jpg), glad he moved up.", 
        "Brilliant, another perspective of Aldo's funny hands.", 
        "Looks kinda bad ass there -   that death stare ", 
        "Nice legs tho", 
        "jesus christ he looks emaciated.", 
        "Looks animated", 
        "Looks like a Dark Souls character that has lost his humanity.", 
        "Looks like a POW from the American Civil War.", 
        "Pretty bad ass picture though.", 
        "I can't really see his ass though", 
        "Exactly", 
        "Ripped version of the old man from Home Alone.", 
        "Holy shit I couldn't put my finger on it until your comment. Spot on. ", 
        "145 McGregor looks like a pterodactyl ", 
        "He'll only fight 145 if Diaz wins tomorrow or Dos Anjos at 200. Otherwise I can't see him doing it again. He'll just vacate.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "UFC 200. The event. They're pretty obviously waiting on the results of this fight to announce McGregor Dos Anjos at 200.", 
        "McGregor-Lawler at 200", 
        "That would be a fuckin' war.", 
        "UFC 200\n\nConor Vs McGregor", 
        "It's Conor's dream fight. ", 
        "It's honestly an easier fight in some ways for McGregor, so it's possible. Doesn't have to deal with any ground game from Robbie.", 
        "Yeah but Robbie has fists of a god and a titanium skull.\n\nI love Conor, but I'm hoping he loses tomorrow so he has to go back down to 145. ", 
        "I am, too. I want to see him and Edgar, but I have a feeling that fight will never happen.", 
        "I could potentially see it at LW after Conor vacates FW if that is what happens. You would have to assume Edgar and Aldo would fight for the vacated belt, I could see the winner of that having a crack at him at LW if timing worked out?", 
        "Conor's young, so there's still a chance, but if Frankie wins the belt I doubt he'd be chomping at the bit to go back up. He already had the 155 belt, and he's very very small for that division.", 
        "I agree in the sense that the belt wouldn't be a huge motivator for Frankie, but the money that flight would make for everyone involved if things pan out a certain way would have to be pretty enticing, at any weight class.", 
        "Lawler Vs Mcgregor would be insane", 
        "My favorite fight to speculate about.", 
        "Mcgregor GSP at 200", 
        "Fuck, I'ld watch the hell out of that. Can we throw Anderson Silva in there too, and Ronda Rousey for the hell of it?", 
        "Anderson Silva vs Ronda Rousey. Only on Bellator.", 
        "Brought to you by Corn Nuts.", 
        "http://i.blogs.es/39d47c/christian-bale-el-maquinista--575x323/450_1000.jpg", 
        "Didn't Bale go from that to Batman in 9 months or something mad? ", 
        "This movie was in 2004 I believe.", 
        "Christian Bale gained 109lbs for \u201cBatman Begins\u201d after losing 63lbs for \u201cThe Machinist\u201d. Bale went from 121lbs to 230lbs in only 6 months which ended up being MORE than director Christopher Nolan desired. So by the time filming began, Christian Bale had dropped to 190lbs.\n\n", 
        "Jesus fucking Christ. Who else can match that level of dedication? ", 
        "Method as fuck", 
        "Steroids.\n\nReally though, what Bale did there is probably the most popular example when people speculate about the use of steroids etc. in Hollywood.", 
        "I would argue that it's not immoral to use steroids in Hollywood. Illegal, sure, but I wouldn't call it immoral. ", 
        "Sure. It's all pretending anyway.", 
        "For anyone who knows a tiny bit about steroids and bodybuilding/weightlifting it's not speculation any more. ", 
        "i heard hugh jackman just went gluten free \n\nhttp://impossible.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/Hugh_Jackman_Wolverine_first_xmen_not_as_lean_strong.jpg\n\nhttp://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/ocd9pgrzecywphlkdawb.jpg\n\n\ni wish these idiots would just own it. they fuck with people with their diet tips and workout routines. yeah of course that too, but what about the drugs guys?\n\nlike when dwayne johnson released his daily diet with the tiger blood joke at the end. how he ate 6-7 meals a day and 8oz halibut, sweet potato blablabla every 2 hours and of course fish oil. okay dwayne. \n", 
        "He likely does eat that much. He's huge and needs tons of good food. He takes steroids as well but steroids do nothing without the building blocks which is the food. ", 
        "As long as we live in a country that criminalizes people for steroid use/sale, I doubt it.  Along with the education systems vilification of androgens, and you have a country in cognitive dissonance.\n\nAs soon as the American public gets over their fear of Performance enhancement science, then we will be able to speak the truth in the light of day.  That being said, I am very much for stringent testing in sports, nut I do not see why private citizens of age cannot use PEDs to their own devices.  ", 
        "Well you won't see that until people of influence (such as these actors) admit to its use.", 
        "> **As soon as the American public gets over their fear of Performance enhancement science**, then we will be able to speak the truth in the light of day.\n\nCouldn't be more inaccurate. ", 
        "Huge Jackedman", 
        "I agree but in the end it's up to people to not be gullible, auto believing what their celeb hero or whatever claims. Common sense.", 
        "The false advice they give is what really bugs me the most. They say just follow this diet and follow this workout routine but they fail to mention it's only possible to eat and train that much because steroids help them recover. There's no way it's healthy for the average person to workout heavy 2 hours twice a day or whatever bullshit they try to pass off as their secret to success. ", 
        "But if steroids just help your muscles recover quicker from each workout, wouldn't normal people get the steroid results after working out for, say, twice as many months as the steroid actor?", 
        "Probably not. Steroids increase the amount of free testosterone in your blood stream drastically (normal is 200-900 ng/dl, on a proper cycle you should reach around 2500 ng/dl within 7 days of starting a cycle.) Testosterone is a hormone that tells your body to build muscle. So it doesn't just help speed up recovery, it signals your body to synthesize protein and build muscle mass. You could do a steroid cycle and not workout and still gain more muscle mass than a non steroid user who works out regularly. Steroids are a wonder drug that, if used properly, can turn almost anyone with any body type into a shredded beast with minimal side effects.\n\nAnother thing to note is that everyone has a genetic limit to how much muscle they can build. If you workout long enough eventually your body can't synthesize enough protein to maintain and build more muscle. Steroids let you surpass your genetic limit.", 
        "Jackmans progress was over about ten years though. And I think he's only about 210 at 6'3\". Shredded yes, but he cuts down an dehydrates before shirtless scenes. He does not look like that all the time. I wouldn't be so quick to lump him in with steroid users and call him an idiot and a liar.", 
        "His vascularity is very reminiscent of someone on Tren.", 
        "I know an awful lot of people who aren't on tren who have that weird vascularity, and especially people over 40 at that bodyfat seem to exhibit it. His skin also doesn't have the shrink-wrap look tren seems to exhibit. Not saying he doesn't use it, just that we don't know. ", 
        "Oh, I agree with you. There's an old alcholic dude who comes into work (he'd be lucky to be 50kg), and he is vascular as fuck haha. To the point that I'm jealous. I just think it's unlikely that anyone is putting on that much muscle well into their 40's. Same as most of the bigger actors, they aren't holding large amounts of mass that would be impossible naturally, it's just the time frame they do it in.\n\nThat said, I have no problem with steroids, I don't consider them \"cheating\" or immoral. I'm all for them in a safe manner. I'd be on them if I had the money and wasn't concerned with the side effects (have/had issues with gyno, acne and depression and anxiety before, I don't want to fuck myself up due to being uneducated).", 
        "Such mean things to say about Hugh Jackman, you'd think they were running against him in a primary.", 
        "Did you see the guy on /r/fitness that was eating The Rocks diet without smashing ridiculous amounts of steroids? \n\nhttps://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/comments/46fxfr/im_eating_and_training_like_dwayne_the_rock/\n\nRage.\n", 
        "rage? yeah, eating a great diet and working out a lot produces results.  apparently you thought i was implying that it didnt?\n\n\"i havent gained any weight eating 5k calories per day (weighs 207 pounds)... riiiight. thats not how it works. thanks for the pointless link though\n\n\"This experience has been eye-opening for me, especially how the nutrition is affecting my workout.\"\n\"Thought /Fitness would benefit from what I'm learning\"\n\nlol. no wonder they locked the thread. ", 
        "What are you talking about? I'm agreeing with you. ", 
        "> What are you talking about? I'm agreeing with you.\n\nwell i totally misread that one, sorry\n\ni figured it was the typical \"youre an idiot, this guy did it!\" bs\n\nthen the \"Rage.\" at the end. figured it was like a \"fuck you, see\"", 
        "Love how quickly that thread dissolved into fish puns.", 
        "Why is this rage?", 
        "[They always show that side-on, weak looking photo from X-Men 1. Why not this one from same film?](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_Aimm0Lb2vx4/TKxE3YmW2-I/AAAAAAAABWw/pcfV2xQC7sQ/s1600/X+Wolverine+1.jpg)\n\n", 
        "Also, Jackman didn't get the part until the film had already started shooting, and he hadn't been working out seriously prior to that, so his shape changes during the film", 
        "In fairness to Hugh Jackman, those pictures are like 10 years apart. ", 
        "You're on steroids. ", 
        "So designer steroids?", 
        "I'd say yeah but there's studies done on what's called overfeeding protocols where they have men or woman eat 1000+ Calories over daily expenditure. The hormone spike and lean mass gain is pretty impressive, way more than the 2lb a month figure spouted all over the internet. I think one study I read shows a 5kg gain in sedentary woman with ~2.3kg being lean mass. How much of that is glycogen? Not sure. \n\n\n\n\nHowever, proteins don't seem to be metabolised as completely as the other macros so if you had 1kcal of protein over daily expenditure I can see someone putting on 18lb a month eating 4000-5000 calories a day without becoming a totally fat piece of shit. How much of that is lean mass? I think that's where the steroids come in. To look not fat after that much intense bulking is unlikely. ", 
        "> Bale went from 121lbs to 230lbs in only 6 months\n\nYup.", 
        "\"I gained and lost 60 pounds within 3 months\". ", 
        "HERE ARE YOUR GODDAMN *DISHESSSSS*", 
        "\"Wow, that's almost impossible.\"", 
        "\"Well first of all through God all things are possible so jot that down\"", 
        "Didn't know McGregor used to be a draugr.", 
        "That is scary. He looks 100x better without cutting weight. ", 
        "His arms and chest look so hungry.", 
        "It's scary how damn good he is even with the weight cut. I can't imagine him being the same fighter with such a difference in weight one day before the fight.", 
        "But did he slow down adding all that mass? Its not like he will become super human. I cant imagine him being quicker with 10lbs of muscle added. We will see :D cant wait.", 
        "I mean he's gotta be better... Look at the picture man, he looks on deaths door at 145. It's a miracle he's walking at that point.", 
        "The difference that water weight makes on physique is so impressive too", 
        "Do people actually think you can add 10lbs of muscle just like that? Conor isn't actually any bigger, he walks around at 170. Thats just what he looks like when he doesnt diet and allows himself to gain body fat. Thats how he was able to hold both 145 and 155 belts, just water weight and body fat manipulate his weight. He even said it himself, he just feels like hes outside of camp and can eat whatever he wants. People seem to think he's never going to be able to back down to 145, they dont realize he goes back up to this weight all the time. ", 
        "I don't think he added any noticeable mass. He just cut less weight. He was already cutting from 170-175, which is a small-medium sized lightweight.\n\nIt'd be pointless to add mass for one fight, when you could barely make the weight class you were (probably) returning to after.", 
        "But the counter to that is that he reaps the benefit of a size advantage. There are pros and cons to big weight cuts. ", 
        "Yeah and Conor has demonstrated that he can withstand that weight cut and still perform well.", 
        "Those 5ish pounds of fat he put on make him look much better. [Especially his head.](http://i.imgur.com/0ZTm6Ed.jpg)", 
        "And then you have Ronda who looks amazing at weigh ins. ", 
        "[I beg to differ.](http://www2.cdn.sherdog.com/_images/pictures/20151113032526_5D3_1437.JPG) She looked like she had a terrible weight cut for the Holm fight.", 
        "It takes a lot of energy to be a rockstar.. ", 
        "IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH BEING A ROCKSTAR.\n\n^^^oh, ^^^sorry ^^^joe", 
        "poor mike goldberg. you could tell joe hurt his feelings with that one.", 
        "Yeah, she normally looks a lot [better](http://lang.dailynews.com/socal/graphics/2014/ronda/rousey_weighs_in_280.jpg).", 
        "Wew lad\n\n\nThat's some prime Ronda right there ", 
        "That picture was almost certainly taken whilst he was in the weight cutting process. that drawn face didnt exist on fight night when he was at 145lb", 
        "that's because on fight night he isn't 145lb", 
        "No shit. That is my point.\n\nIt isn't the extra bodyweight he has put on that makes his head look better, it was just the rehydration.\n\nBecause when he actually fought at the 145lb DIVISION, he didn't look like that picture.", 
        "Most people don't realize another reason he looks so much thicker now is he used to be 2\" taller back then.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Some fights they'll list fighters a certain height and then list inches taller for others.", 
        "He... Grew?", 
        "If you told me that was a bootleg  version of Aldo vs McGregor I might've believed you. ", 
        "It's the porn parody.", 
        "\"Both fighters have near identical reaches of 10 inches\"", 
        "145 Conor looks like a drug addict from The Wire. ", 
        "[Sheeeiiiiitttt](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/bAQv6KTfQow/hqdefault.jpg)", 
        "Bubbles will be accompanying him to the ring", 
        "The belt will be ushered out in a shopping cart full of piping. ", 
        "[**@SandhuMMA**](https://twitter.com/SandhuMMA):\n>[2016-03-05 00:43:04 UTC](https://twitter.com/SandhuMMA/status/705916504038965248)\n\n>Top: Conor McGregor weighing 145lbs on Dec 11th for the Aldo fight. \n>Bottom: Conor McGregor weighing 168lbs today. [*pic.twitter.com*](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/CcvrTpcUsAAWaOu.jpg) [^[Imgur]](http://i.imgur.com/oKa11BG.jpg)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/49097e%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "The fact that that is the same person from a few months prior is incredible.", 
        "I'm so glad rehab was a success.", 
        "weight cutting should be banned. ", 
        "Diuretics are banned. Didn't keep him from using it in the first photo. ", 
        "I completely agree, people should weigh in at their natural weight. If they weigh 164lbs normally then they have to fight at welterweight. If they weigh 197lbs normally then they have to fight at light heavyweight.", 
        "Wtf is a natural weight? ", 
        "Why are they gaining weight?", 
        "I know weigh ins are part of the whole show but they should be a few hours before a fight imo, you fight at what you weigh", 
        "Along with what /u/mma13579 said, it's also just not good for fighters safety. Many will still try to cut weight and gain an advantage and it just does not end well for anyone. This is a best compromise thus far.", 
        "Yes the only issue is that if someone doesn't make weight they don't have time to cut the extra pounds.", 
        "wtf is natural weight?", 
        "Natural weights is such a subjective term, and besides, people should have the freedom to choose how much they weigh (and such what weight classes they fight in). ", 
        "Nah. Just same hour weighs in, the same as BJJ and wrestling. There is much more of a balance. It's still not healthy, but all it takes is once for you to realize how bad of an idea it is to dehydrate yourself before a match. ", 
        "Came in to say this, thinking nobody else had mentioned it.  Much like  [/u/skippy2893](https://www.reddit.com/user/skippy2893)'s comment below yours, *IBJJF* competitions are same-hour weigh ins.  Once you weigh in, you're staged for the match behind your mat.  You can drink whatever you want then, but it's a matter of minutes before your fight.  Thanks for weighing in intelligently (no pun intended).", 
        "Everyone is saying \"doesn't matter, fighters would still cut\". No they wouldn't. It would take one fight before an entire team decides never to fight dehydrated ever again. I would argue that after the first night under same hour weigh ins we would never see weight cuts again. You wake up hungover and feel like shit? Try fighting the baddest motherfuckers in the world while you're hungover and they're cool as a cucumber.  I truly believe that \"doesn't matter, fighters will still cut\" is flat out wrong. The advantage of fighting in a lower weight class is countered by fighting without energy, power, or a chin, and fighters would not do it. \n\nEdit: I seem to be getting two types of responses: 1. People will still cut because of the advantages outweighing the negatives. And 2. We can't let same day weigh ins happen because it's way too dangerous and people will die. Which is it? You can't have both. You either have an advantage, or you are risking death. You can't be risking death and still claim that you feel well enough that you have an advantage. If a person is a punch away from death then they certainly are better off fighting a weight class higher because at that point you aren't seeing a single damn advantage. ", 
        ">  I truly believe that \"doesn't matter, fighters will still cut\" is flat out wrong. The advantage of fighting in a lower weight class is countered by fighting without energy, power, or a chin, and fighters would not do it.\n\nTell that to the majority of HS and college wrestlers. ", 
        "Wrestlers don't cut 25+ lbs and then get punched in the face.", 
        "Right, totally not comparable. /s\n\nThese guys are ultra competitive or they wouldn't be fighting at the highest levels. What makes you think that they'd change their behavior regarding cutting if they think that they can get away with it. ", 
        "Because getting hit in the head while dehydrated will land you on your ass and giving you a nice big L in your record. It's not even slightly comparable to wrestling. For starters there's way more weight classes in wrestling so no one cuts as much to find a competitive weight, and secondly they don't have to get punched which makes mma and wrestling completely incomparable when it comes to weight cuts. ", 
        "> Because getting hit in the head while dehydrated will land you on your ass and giving you a nice big L in your record. \n\nYou can absolutely make the same argument in wrestling. A big cut hurts your endurance and strength, yet people still do it. \n\n> For starters there's way more weight classes in wrestling so no one cuts as much to find a competitive weight. \n\nYou're simply wrong here. There are more weight classes, but people generally cut as much as they can handle. I did ~20lbs my freshman year (HS) from walking weight of 135ish down to 112 and I sure as hell wasn't the only guy doing it. \n\nI don't know why it's hard to accept that two combat sports where people routinely cut hard are comparable? Obviously they're not exactly the same, but what would be the point of comparing two things that are exactly alike? [Phil Davis made the comparison](http://www.mmafighting.com/2011/04/22/the-truth-about-making-weight) ... and there are tons of articles talking about cutting that all cite wrestling and the solution amateur wrestling put in place in response to folks dying doing their cuts. [Example 1](http://www.f4wonline.com/mma-news/weight-cutting-mma-scientific-approach-fixing-problem-203771) ... [Example 2](http://www.mmafighting.com/2013/10/15/4832976/weight-cutting-the-issue-of-little-benefit-some-dangers-and-difficult).", 
        "There's actually only 6 Olympic weight classes vs 8 UFC men's weight classes so that's not entirely true. Though at lower levels there's more but highest tier mma vs highest tier wrestling, mma has more weight classes.", 
        "You're kidding right?\n\nYou are aware that same day weigh ins used to be the norm, right?", 
        "1. I can't find anything saying the UFC used to do weigh-ins immediately before the fight. 2. If they did, they don't anymore so I don't see your point. ", 
        "Probably because you are a complete dipshit and don't realize that the UFC has no authority whatsoever when it comes to weigh-ins.\n\nOnly the state commissions do.  Try looking there.\n\n& Thanks for the downvote.", 
        "And you're a complete dipshit who is making things up then getting very defensive when I call you on it. Show me where the UFC has done weigh-ins immediately before fights and also show me how that has anything to do with it no longer happening please. Oh wait...", 
        "They haven't and never will because THEY DO NOT HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO DO IT.", 
        "Which leads me to: Why did you say it was the norm? And why did you even bring it up in the first place? I have asked that second question 3 times now and you just avoid it. What kind of point were you trying to make when you said it was the norm? Or were you just saying the first sentence that popped into your head for no apparent reason?", 
        "Because that's how state athletic commissions used to conduct weigh ins: on the same day until the mid 80's.  Due to promotional/contract/safety/revenue issues that plagued same day weigh ins, they were banned nearly worldwide.\n\nThis is basic knowledge and history of combat sports.  You tried to come off as some knowledgeable dickwad (problem being you aren't), slow your role and learn a bit about the fight game before posting nonsense.", 
        "What if they died in the one fight where they're cutting weight for a same day weigh in? It's a definite possibility and it's honestly likely. ", 
        "Then mission accomplished. No one will try it ever again. ", 
        "Couldn't agree with you more.  I'd say most of the folks arguing your point have never competed in this sort of setting.  I've managed to cut over the course of two months leading up to Pan Am's so I could fight in light-feather.  I feel like I have plenty of gas, and didn't atrophy substantially.  OTOH, those times where I was gassed, tired, hung-over, or malnourished, I lost to myself, and wanted nothing more than to tap to my opponent.\nFor anyone not agreeing, try going without food or water for a day. What starts out as \"that's easy, no problem!\" quickly turns into an un-winnable battle against your most base needs - your psychology and rationale will change markedly until you break.\nSure, there're the occasional meat-heads that cut the week prior, and scrape by, but more often than not, they lose on points, submission, or injury.  Losing to your body leaves an indelible impression that you never want to repeat. ", 
        "I mean a big thing in powerlifting is the difference in weigh ins. The two major feds in the US are the USAPL and USPA; USAPL has 2hour weigh ins where USPA has 12. You can ask any lifter (even the elites) and say that on average people will do heavier cuts in USPA as compared to the USAPL. Now do a hand full competitors (mostly in the heavier weight classes) do pretty sizable cuts? Sure, but clearly they know what they're doing and will auto regulate their walking weight so that its just a water cut that they know they can quickly recover from. But with the extra 10 hours, USPA can do heavier cuts because they have the time to recover. USAPL doesn't have this luxury but the competitors adapt. Neither has cases where people are passing out from dehydration cause you need to get as much performance on the platform as possible so you have to be smart about your cuts and know how your body will react for competition. So do people (especially elites) cut? Sure. But is it so drastic that your not at 100% after two hours of food and drink? No.\n\nSeems like the same principle would work out in MMA. \n\nTL;DR I pretty much agree", 
        "isn't the risk relatively small assuming you have competent spotters. I mean yeah missing the lift because you're too dehydrated sucks but besides that no harm done.\n\nSeems way different to me than fighting. Someone could fight dehydrated and take several blows to the head before the fight being over.", 
        "Risk of injury? Kinda small yeah (except for squat, really the only place I see injuries happen). But it's not like you wana waste the last 16weeks of peaking and expecially hard training (if that counts as a risk).\n\nI suppose it's coming from a different angle, I still think it's applicable. Sure powerlifters aren't normally thinking about injuries, they're thinking about performance. But wouldn't that kinda go hand and hand with mma too?. They ask, 'how much can I cut so that it doesn't effect my performance because a good preformance = lower chance of injury.' \n\nI just feel like there's a lot of examples of how shorter weigh ins (eg 2hour weigh ins) is correlated with lower weight cuts. Everyone is always looking for the greatest advantage. Cutting a shit ton and being at 60% vs the guy who cut like 4kgs of water who's at 95% isn't optimal. Youre gonna lose. When you don't have that recovery time you have to adapt and their trainers and nutritionists will know that too. Will people fight dehydrated? Sure, but I bet some do it now. Will they still try NOT to? Yes. How will they? By not cutting as much as they used to. \n\nIdk just makes a lot of sense to me.", 
        "The risk also includes not doing as well as you know you can.  Training for months, giving up your time which'd otherwise be spent enjoying life - walking off the podium knowing that you'd done so much better in practice than just now.  Professionals or even serious amateurs don't take that lightly.", 
        "Can't see a way to enforce it", 
        "piggy back weight ins on top of usada testing. ", 
        "Measure the fighters' usual, healthy walking weight. Allow fighters to cut down a maximum of one division providing they are within 10 or so lbs of the desired division at their walking weight. Allow fighters to bulk up to higher divisions as long as it's healthy.", 
        "They can do hydration and body fat tests", 
        "You don't ban it, you just add a hydration test like has been implemented in many states for wrestling.", 
        "Test for water levels. Simple. ", 
        "The exact way they did with this fight. Two guys who knew each others size agreed on a weight and ignored weight classes", 
        " ", 
        "Ban iv rehydration", 
        "Didn't an organization like One FC iirc just implement a new system that's supposed to work pretty well?", 
        "No weight classes.  Problem solved.", 
        "everyone weighs in as in everyone one day weighs in they also have a card and a scale which they scan and weigh themselves everyday/week and those numbers are sent to a database and that data is collected and stored and then doctors/ufc/commision get together to figure out the best way to go from there. There should be a weight cutting dynamic to combat sports but not dramatic weight cutting", 
        "Maybe weigh fighters every week in the 6 weeks leading up to a fight. Fighters must be within 5lbs of their weight class. Cutting weight every single week would be such a hindrance to training that you'd see a lot of fighters moving up in weight to avoid the whole rigmarole. ", 
        "Even though it would be crazy impractical, I've always thought you could do a daily weigh-in over the fortnight leading up to a fight, and you have stay within a certain margin overall.", 
        "Weigh in on fight day", 
        "That is a horrible idea.", 
        "Fighters will still cut ", 
        "The other way; Weigh people every month, give them 10lbs range, tighten it up to their class limit just before the fight.\n\nThey would live, train and fight and their walking - natural weight.", 
        "Do you want more fighters with rhabdo? Because thats how you get more fighters with rhabdo", 
        "In wrestling they sometimes weigh-in on match day. They still cut weight.", 
        "I think its way less an advantage and may even be more of a disadvantage compared to having 1 day to recover", 
        "You need multiple weigh ins, weeks before, days before, and day of. Otherwise cutting will still be a thing.", 
        "Was just going to say this. I like it.", 
        "Random weigh-ins in the couple weeks leading up to a fight?", 
        "Not random. One two weeks before, one a week before, and one the day of the fight. Say if the fight is at 170, the first 2 weigh ins can be allowed a 3-5 pound difference but the final one on the day of should be 170.", 
        "Isn't there another organization that's doing more weigh ins? The fighters have to be within a certain percentage each weigh in, plus a weigh in on fight night.", 
        "Nope.  Then people just fight dehydrated.  ", 
        "If they are that stupid then they deserve to lose.", 
        "Can't we weigh them the moment they get into the cage? The only benefit to weight cutting is getting a size advantage over your opponent. Weigh them at the beginning of the day and you might have them running out back to stick a hose in their butt. But weigh them before they get in the cage and you're guaranteed they're the same weight. Or is there some other factor I'm missing here? Like muscle to water percentage or something.", 
        "If they fought dehydrated and get knocked out they might die, that's a downside. ", 
        "What I'm saying is why would you come in dehydrated if you know you're not going to have time to rehydrate. In theory, punching power is directly proportional to how much you weigh. So if you know for an absolute fact (cage side weigh in) that you're going to be the same weight as your opponent, then there isn't any point in dehydrating down to make the weight. ", 
        "not really, the biggest downside is if a fighter misses weight they would have to call off the fight right then and disappoint fans waiting for a fight. ", 
        "Well one reason why weighing in right before the fight isn't viable is if the fighter doesn't make weight. There would be no time for them to lose the extra pounds in order to make the required amount.", 
        "Promoters don't want that.  Cancelling fights for medical reasons/missed weight at the time of the fight with no possibility of a replacement is bad for business.\n", 
        "Yeah but then they still won't have a weight advantage. Plus they'd be dehydrated. ", 
        "Weigh them every day for a week.  \n\nGotta maintain weight (+/- a little bit) the whole time.", 
        "This is the more logical way to do it.  I think ONEFC does something along these lines.  ", 
        "Is there any way to test for a certain level of dehydration in a fighter? I'm not very scientifically inclined in this area, but I would assume there's a test that could be done to measure the amount of water weight lost right?", 
        "If they can, it still wouldn't help to do it on fight day.  They could just test their hydration on weigh-in day and the whole process would be safer.  ", 
        "So if they came up with a mean percentage of water weight based on avg. bodyweight and hydration levels via testing, then theoretically they could come up with stipulations that would regulate it, right? \n\nAgain. I have no knowledge, but it would seem like an effective testing system.\n", 
        "Look at OneFC. They aren't fighting dehydrated and dying. They're fighting at their real walking weights.", 
        "They've got a system that checks weight multiple times during the lead up to the fight.  \n\nIt's also only been in place for a short time. ", 
        "Oh yeah, it's still in the experimental phase. I was just saying that so far, it looks very promising and it seems that we *can* do away with the giant weight cuts.", 
        "They would be at a big disadvantage then right?", 
        "Yeah people would die of dehydration and flash KO's seriously. Beinh dehydrated and getting KO'd = coma time? Look what happened to that dude who fought kimbo.", 
        "Dada is not your typical MMA fighter, comparisons to him we have to take with a grain of salt. ", 
        "No they won't. A dehydrated fighter loses a huge chunk of his physical attributes. There's literally no point in fighting dehydrated.", 
        "We're discussing this to improve fighter safety.  If they're willing to dehydrate themselves to dangerous levels, what makes you think that they won't do the same when they're fighting?  Some might be safe about it, but a lot of them will think, \"Hey, as long as I win and don't get KO'd, it won't matter.\"\n\nThis is categorically the wrong way to improve fighter safety. ", 
        "I don't think you understand that fighters would not fight at \"dangerous levels\" of hydration, because a dangerous level of hydration on fight day is an automatic loss. At that point, you can no longer compete at a high level, and fighters wouldn't do it. Fighters would have to be at a more natural weight if they want to make weight and also win.", 
        "Because it crushes performance. Literally fucking crushes it to death. Why the fuck would someone fight dehydrated if it kills their speed and stamina by like 50%? To fight smaller guys? Doesn't even begin to make sense. Only makes sense if they have time to re-hydrate.", 
        "logically, sure, 95% of fighters might do this.  But if even a small fraction of fighters find them in themselves in positions where they miscalculated weight and have to fight even partially dehydrated then they face huge risks of brain and kidney injury.  You simply can't trust competitors with this responsibility because there will always be people that are trying to game the system or willing to risk danger in order to not have to drop out of a fight at the last second.  \n\nPeople that fight for a living are extremely open to taking risks by nature.  There's simply no logic in thinking that the same people that will cut dangerous amounts of weight for weigh ins won't step into the cage at dangerously low hydration levels just to avoid missing weight or forfeiting a fight. ", 
        "That's the incentive.  It would force people to gigi at a more natural weight because it's impossible to compete at a high level immediately after cutting so much", 
        "This is a good argument.", 
        "It's a dangerous incentive.  Fighting dehydrated leads to higher risk of concussion.", 
        "No one is forcing anyone to fight dehydrated. If you don't want to fight dehydrated and risk a concussion? Fight at natural weight. Plain and simple as that.", 
        "I'm saying it would incentivize fighters to fight at their normal weight. ", 
        "And he is telling you that the fighters will not care, and will do whatever they can to get an advantage or to think they're gaining an advantage. Its happened in the past and the best solution so far has been these weigh ins taking place the day before.\n\n/u/pzycho knows exactly what you're trying to convey, and has repeatedly said why it doesn't work.", 
        "Fair enough. I've always wanted to see if it would work. I wrestled through college and always wanted to see if it would if implemented. I guess I just hated cutting weight. ", 
        "Same day weigh ins are why so many boxers died in the 20th century, dude. It'd be a horrible idea. ", 
        "There have been other ideas or resolutions to the issue. Not sure if commissions think it's perfectly fine the way it is or if they just don't care enough to innovate and change. I've seen a proposed system where % differences are used, as in a fighter can only be allowed to cut so much based on their own bodies or just their weight class. Not sure on the exact specifics of these various alternatives but I feel like people are content enough with how things currently are. ", 
        "Except there is no advantage to fighting dehydrated. There is literally no advantage whatsoever. It's a huge negative. A hydrated 145 pounder will wipe the floor with a dehydrated 155 pounder. Dehydration is the single worst thing you can do for athletic performance apart from sawing a leg off maybe.", 
        "Wrestlers do it now, they just get into ridiculously good shape so that they can cut Hella weight and then still be able to compete. We weigh in only an hour before wrestling and at the D1 level I've seen guys cut 13 pounds over 24 hrs and then compete. It's not healthy to get hit after doing that and it definitely shouldn't be implemented into MMA. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I think that the incentive to fighting dehydrated is that you still get paid. It isn't just about winning and losing, it's about getting paid and keeping a roof over your head for a lot of these guys. Given a choice nobody is going to have a fight while dehydrated, but if it's the only way you can make weight and get paid then guys will take crazy risks with their health. ", 
        "I'm not %100 sure, but I believe that fighters in the past have tried all they can to still cut and attempt to put some of the lost water back on, within the few hours they may have had before their fight and after their weigh in.\n\nI suppose you could say say \"weigh them at the Octagon\", but as others have wisely pointed out, that's poor planning. Someone misses weight and the that's that fight, clear and done. Bad for business.\n\nI understand the disadvantages and advantages of improper and proper weight cutting. While I'm not a fighter or medical professional of any sort, I'm just trying to reiterate why the system that is currently in place is how it is!", 
        "It's their own choice. No one is forcing them to fight dehydrated. ", 
        "Not everyone is aware of their limits and the *subtle* yet large physical effects dehydration has on them.", 
        "Incentives tell them to risk it. \"Force\" is rarely the key problem.", 
        "Then why force them to not cut weight? Your logic is flawed.", 
        "The idea, as I understand it, would that be they don't fight dehydrated and they just fight at their natural weight.", 
        "But by making same day weigh ins they would inevitably fight dehydrated.", 
        "And a plausible risk of death", 
        "Wrong. You can test hydration levels you goof.", 
        "You can pass hydration tests while dehydrated, college wrestlers do it all the time", 
        "One FC has demonstrated a fairly decent model for getting around cheating.", 
        "Then why not just do hydration tests on weigh-in day, clown shoes?", 
        "One FC is doing that.", 
        "I don't remember objecting to that hypothetical, poopy pants.", 
        "I love everything about this. Poo face.", 
        "random weight test like drug tests. Based on how far away the fight is, a fighter can be X over the target. Have a doctor decide what an acceptable rate of weight loss is and set the benchmarks. \n\nA fighter can still cut, but have an acceptable limit. Then you could also un-ban IV's to allow what little cut was allowed to have a minimal impact on performance. ", 
        "Your weight fluctuates so much though and every one is just going to try to be at the upper limit if you make a range", 
        "sure. but at least it is controlled. And random weight tests mean you can't just hover at the top end of the range because if the crew shows up to weigh you and you have hovered over the line because of the steak you just ate... too bad, so sad. someone else gets your fight money.\n\nthe point is that you can no longer cut massive amounts of water to make weight. You have to be legitimately close to fight weight.", 
        "Yeah no that's stupid. Haha we caught you before a work out and after drinking water and having to pee!  I don't think you understand how much weight fluctuates", 
        "Thanks for the feedback. I know could have weighed in any day of the week and been within 10lbs of my weight class -- probably 3lbs. But I was not trying to drop two weight classes to gain an edge. That is the core of the problem, the weight system is being abused by everyone to the point were abusing it is mandatory. Expecting someone to be within 20lbs 4 months out isn't a hard target. Expecting them to be 10lbs out the week prior isn't a hard target. \n\nIf you are more than 10lbs over because of pee and a heavy drink of water then you aren't really in that weight class, you are trying to get into a weight class lower so you have an edge.\n\nAlso, if you make it a hard rule with strict punishment, I think you'll be surprised how well a professional athlete will hit those targets.", 
        "If you've never had 10 pounds of water weight dropped in a day or two you've never really worked out. ", 
        "Look at One FC.", 
        "Exactly, look at where they fight. UFC would have to stop making fights in the US to begin with", 
        "What exactly does location have to do with regulations for weight cutting...?", 
        "In the US, in order to fight professionally in MMA, you have to be regulated by a commission. In Nevada for example, MMA is operated under laws and rules that the UFC can't control. \n\nFor example the following rule set by the NAC is the following:\n\n>NAC\u2002467.496\u2002\u2002Unarmed combatants required to submit to weigh-in and physical examination. (NRS 467.030)\u2002\u2002An unarmed combatant who has signed a bout agreement is subject to an order by the Commission to appear at any time to be:\n     1.\u2002\u2002Weighed; or\n     2.\u2002\u2002Examined by any physician whom the Commission may designate.\n     [Athletic Comm\u2019n, \u00a7 46, eff. 4-25-78]\u2014(NAC A 12-13-82; 12-2-97)\n\nThe commissions hold power so that the UFC can't make up rules as they go and they were created to protect the fighters. Sure this ends up with silly stuff and impedes the quickness in which orgs can innovate but they do create consistency and a certain amount of safety that keeps fighters safe. Prevents stuff like how ONE FC just dumped one of its fighters at the hospital and then just done left in a minute. \n\nBut short answer. Commissions control basically the rules inside the fights and procedure of the weigh ins. ", 
        "I think the UFC probably has some influence over the rules.", 
        "They could lobby to try to influence a change of policies but they still don't control them", 
        "> They could lobby to try to influence a change of policies\n\nThat's what influence means.  \n\nThey bring a lot of money in, and people would likely make reasonable accommodations to keep them in town.", 
        "Yeah my bad, just read that wrong. My bad", 
        "Im pretty sure you can still respect the commission's rule but add more to it. Similar to how the ufc drug tests their fighter much more than what the commission would do on its own. They could still adhere to the local commission requests but add the same rules as one fc with weigh-ins at random before the fight.", 
        "To my knowledge they don't mix well with the rules that the NAC lists in Weigh-in procedures. Especially since they control all aspects of the weigh ins except presentation. So not much organizations here in the US can do\n\nAlso there's a small rule that says organization needs to hire proper security, which I found interesting but that's a side fact. \n\n", 
        "The UFC could add supplemental rules on top of that without issue.  ", 
        "State athletic commissions that sanction the fights is what is what the states have to do with it.", 
        "Weigh a fighter every day for weeks before the fight. Make a fighter be in a specific weight range 2 weeks out, a specific weight range 1 month out, etc. It doesn't cost any money to step on a scale each day. Easy solution. ", 
        "I like him at 145, looks like an insane viking king from a Norse dystopia.\n\nAt 168 he looks like a jolly soft cheeked Irish cricket player.", 
        "Thank Mr. Skeltal. ", 
        "Weight cutting will do as much damage to these fighters longevity as the brain trauma.", 
        "You're kidding right?", 
        "That's speculation at this point I think. It makes sound sense but I don't think there's actual data pointing to increased trauma from dehydration. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "That's not fat loss, that's dehydration. I don't know the long term effects of repeatedly dehydrating yourself, but you're mistaken if you think fighters simply clean up their diet and calorie restrict to make weight.", 
        "Calling me an idiot when you clearly don't know the science. I'm sitting at 10% BF and work out 5 days a week, so please get the fuck off of your high horse. There have been people that have died trying to cut too much weight like Yang Jian Bing. Look up what severe dehydration does to your body before you call someone else idiotic. Do you even follow the sport or do you just randomly hop in threads to shit post without knowing any information? Weight cutting in MMA is not at all just about cutting fat and shows how naive and immature you are by coming in this thread and calling me idiotic when you're the one that has absolutely no fucking idea what you're talking about.", 
        "Probably not.", 
        "based on what studies? or you just bro theorizing? ", 
        "Im guessing he's talking about kidney failure long term, not brain trauma from actually cutting weight.", 
        "http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/04/140428163637.htm\n\nDehydration is linked to an increase in the chance of concussions from trauma to the head\n\n>A loss of just two percent of the body's water volume to dehydration -- a feat easily achieved during prolonged exercise in hot weather -- can lead to a significant reduction in the amount of cerebrospinal (CSF) fluid that a person has. CSF acts as a cushion to protect the brain from hitting against the inside of the skull during jarring movements. For football players, games conducted in hot and humid conditions could present the perfect storm of risk factors to up their chances for a concussion.", 
        "Your statement is as such it separates the subjects.\n\n>Weight cutting will do as much damage to these fighters longevity as the brain trauma.\n\nIf I weight cut 1 week a year and never fight, that is equivalent to getting a concussion? Or did you structure your sentence in such a way that they seem mutually exclusive? I agree dehydrating will exacerbate concussions 100%. I may have misunderstood  ", 
        "I've also heard it can potentially increase brain trauma as the brain takes longer to rehydrate than the rest of your body.  Think I remember Joe Rogan talking about it on a podcast.  ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This is actually a rumor. When you dehydrate, the last place you lose fluid from is your CSF (the fluid surrounding your brain). Most of the water weight lost comes from blood volume and from cells. The body definitely tries to protect the brain as much as possible. If you are losing fluid volume from CSF, you are probably dehydrated to the point of having other major problems, like organ failure. \n\nSource: I'm a grad student in exercise physiology and specifically asked a professor this question", 
        "yea but have you been on JRE?", 
        "Facts have no place here... BEGONE!!! ", 
        "Hmmm, who to believe. Joe Rogans bro-science, or a professor in exercise physiology.\n\n", 
        "All the recent deaths in boxing are at the lower weight classes where size is more of an advantage. They were all after bad weight cuts and normal boxing head trauma.", 
        "I'd definitely trust Joe Rogan's opinion when it comes to science.", 
        "Dude take some halucengens and sit a float tank and tell me if you aren't successful afterwards!", 
        "Context please", 
        "Every Joe Rogan podcast seems to spin into a magic mushrooms talk", 
        "Literally any JRE podcast. I listen to all of them as soon as they come out and you better believe he's going to come right back around to that stuff no matter what he's talking about.", 
        "Amazing that the 145 pic looks like almost the same amount of muscle, just 0% bodyfat.", 
        ">  the same amount of muscle\n\nIt probably is.  He's just a lot softer in the second pic.", 
        "His lats are considerably bigger", 
        "Maybe. But his elbows are up a bit higher in the 2nd pic which would bring them out more.", 
        "He looked like a construction camp survivor", 
        "construction camp?", 
        "It's where aspiring construction workers go as children. ", 
        "I kinda miss shredded Mcgregor. It's like a biology study. Looking at the tendons and muscles", 
        "Christian Balelike in his weight cutting, Joe", 
        "Bale-esque*", 
        "[Face Swap](http://i.imgur.com/Zr6Nrpb.jpg)", 
        "Reddit- all the shit you never knew you needed to see. ", 
        "That's the whole head. ", 
        "the face is on the head", 
        "NOT ON YOURS, BUTTFACE!", 
        "[how dare you](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-yyuNjkFA9NU/Ti8_IXnA_8I/AAAAAAAACc0/3D9lEFQm80Q/s1600/Assy.png)", 
        "Oh, I didn't know about your medical condition. My apologies.", 
        "So unreal, great share!", 
        "Visual representation of how unhealthy weight cutting can be. ", 
        "Holy jaysus", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/DT0hRqj.jpg", 
        "I just realised that Conor weighed in at the same weightclass that Rumble did", 
        "Conor lookin' really jolly at 168.", 
        "A man's got to do, what a man's got to do............to fight midgets.", 
        "He looks so happy haha", 
        "This is actually awesome. I'm not a particularly big Conor fan but he always looked on deaths door for weigh ins", 
        "His lats look much much bigger ", 
        "/#TransformationFriday", 
        "Look at they lats in the bottom compared to the top man.", 
        "He's never going to fight at 145 again, no matter what happens.", 
        "Once maximum but i agree maybe never", 
        "If this doesn't convince defenders of weight cutting that we need a better system, I don't know what will.", 
        "This should be used as evidence whenever someone argues for weight cutting. The difference is insane.", 
        "extreme  weight cutting championships ", 
        "He's def a lot bigger but the lighting is different", 
        "Was he in the Machinist?", 
        "This is how fighting should be. Show up healthy in a natural weight class. ", 
        "Weight cutting is one thing I really hate about MMA. I really wish you fought at what you walked around at, there should be weigh in the day of the fight. ", 
        "He looks like hes celebrating surviving a concentration camp.", 
        "Conor with Cable. vs Conor with DirectTv", 
        "Connor was just born without a chest God said he can have any thing he wants except a chest", 
        "The lighting plays a huge role; still a crazy difference.", 
        "I wonder if he will ever be able to make 145 again.", 
        "He most definitely can. It's not impossible to lose weight.\n\nWhether he himself actually plans on fighting at 145 again... now that's the real question.", 
        "Is not as simple as \"losing weight\", McGregor already had a hard time cutting to 145. He is quite big for that weight class. Plus, when you gain muscle cutting back down become much harder.", 
        "Not necessarily. A longer period of 'bulking' or eating at a rate thats not a deficit and gaining a small amount of extra muscle tissue will actually speed up your metabolism making the initial parts of the weight cut smoother, the rest is just dehydration. After this longer period of not making any drastic cuts his next cut to 155 or 145 will be 'easier'. Connor walked about at 165-170 before when he cut down to 145 so its just his normal weight. \n", 
        "Its Jose Aldo situation all over again when Jose had McGregor unsettled at the weigh-ins. But then again I've never see [McGregor flinch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y2GRwE0petE) the way he did against Nate today. Let's see what tomorrow brings!", 
        "I wouldn't look into that too much. In fact that could be very much a positive for McGregor, an ingrained fighters reflex action. He envisaged a pool noodle coming at him.", 
        "Top picture looks like a bad photoshop", 
        "Damn, he looks good. ", 
        "Night and day. Crazy that was only 3 months ago.", 
        "At 145, what did he actually weigh in the day of the fight? Same for this, what will he weigh tomorrow during the fight?", 
        "Holy shit he looks sucked out. A guy on my college wrestling used to do this.  He should have been two weight classes up. ", 
        "Before and after thanksgiving ", 
        "He looks heavier.\n\nWho'd have guessed, right?", 
        "This is what we call an Ascended Saiyan, higher than Super Saiyan but not quite Super Saiyan 2.", 
        "Conor has gone from The Machinist to Batman.", 
        "This is downright frightening", 
        "He looked hungrier back then. ", 
        "Full Belly Gregor.", 
        "That's insane", 
        "He looks like an irish Jon Jones in the second pic.", 
        "http://stronglifts.com/wp-content/uploads/christian-bale-batman.jpg", 
        "First picture: Night of the Living Mcgregor", 
        "He doesn't look as hungry as he used to.", 
        "Mentally or literally?", 
        "If this is him at 168 the day before the fight there is now way in hell he could stand toe to toe with fucking Lawler!!", 
        "So did Conor have to cut weight to get to 168? Or is that just his natural weight now?", 
        "He had to gain weight....best fight week of his career, his own words. ", 
        "Thanks for replying. I know he had to gain weight. But there were talks about him being 178lb. Did he have to cut down from there? If he really was 178, isn't it odd he cut to 168 rather than 170 on the dot?", 
        "Well Dos Anjos only pulled out a week ago and that was a 155 fight, so I'm sure Conor was closer to that with a week to go then 178, especially since he usually fights at 145. Conor has been talking about eating 2 breakfasts a day this week, so he was probably closer to 160-165 earlier this week. ", 
        "This is hilarious.", 
        "Terrifying ", 
        "I am guessing it's the pose being different, but his lats got gigantic", 
        "I really wonder what his weight lifting program looks like. I don't think you can get that big with just body weight exercises on rings. ", 
        "Thank goodness, he looks less like shrinkwrapped Barnett now.", 
        "Homeless Conor vs Home-fed Conor", 
        "Yeah, fuck seeing fighters in that emaciated state...", 
        "He looks like a hobo who was trapped in a gym for weeks at 145.", 
        "It's like 10% body fat vs 6%", 
        "Conor must have had to dehydrate himself like crazy for the Aldo fight to look like that pic..", 
        "He should of drunk a bunch of water and made it a clean 170, 168 is such an ugly number", 
        "that was like a malnourished cat vs a tiger jesus.", 
        "Goddamn Conor looks terrifying.", 
        "Skeletor vs HE-MAN ", 
        "I mean, he really shouldn't be fighting at 145 anyway. With his build I believe 170 is where he belongs. He looks a lot healthier, and stronger to.", 
        "I don't get this. Wouldn't he have weighed close to that weight when he fought Aldo anyways? He's completely starved and dehydrated when they weigh in and they gain like 15 pounds at least by the time the fight comes around.", 
        "Dem lats", 
        "He was even worse for the Mendes fight", 
        "Walking weight is awesome. I wish there was a way to safely do it. ", 
        "My kidneys hurt just looking at Grass Fed Conor.\n\nSteak fed Conor is so big, by comparison, we should give him a second 'n'.", 
        "Looks better at 170 imo", 
        "For those saying the top pic looks Photoshopped... It is, to an extent. The contrast and clarity are dialed way up compared to the bottom. (He's obviously VERY dehydrated to make the weight but camera tricks play a role). It's like this pic of Cung Le that had everyone saying he was on steroids until he showed up to the fight looking totally normal.  https://usatmmajunkie.files.wordpress.com/2014/08/cung-le-jacked-photo.jpg", 
        "Looks like some CGI meth head on the top pic", 
        "He looks a lot less criminally insane", 
        "Top photo: Christian Bale in the machinist. \n\nBottom photo: Christian Bale in Batman Begins", 
        "Soooo honest question from an overweight non fighter.. Does the massive amount of shred that Conor has in the first picture benefit him in the fight at all?  I mean I imagine being lighter makes him faster but besides that. Or is it just a consequence of intense weight cutting?", 
        "... No its not an advantage, as you see its way below his natural weight, also everyone said he's too been g for the 145 division that he has reach advantage, I think 155 and up is more natural to him", 
        "Makes sense", 
        "damn, he looks like Christian Bale in The Machinist in the first one compared to now", 
        "reasons why weight cutting is absurd", 
        "168 McGregor looks Jolly as fuck", 
        "[Here](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-OBDRWsyrc5c/VCjghveQzQI/AAAAAAAAAWM/RS7xPTDH-oo/s1600/Screen%2BShot%2B2014-09-29%2Bat%2B2.27.02%2Bpm.png) is a picture of him at 145 also\n\nthis twitter guy found the worst possible picture he could from his worst weight cut ever and compared it to a picture of him not cutting any weight. whats the point?\n\npeople like this are trying to perpetuate this stupidity that he \"put on 25 pounds for this fight!!!\" i think even dana white tried to say that as well. \n\nthe same way theyre trying to feed people this \"hes moving up 2 weight classes!!\" bs. dana cant stop saying it at press conferences. its like theyre trying to pretend a win over a LW, and not even a big one at that, is credibility for him to get the shot against lawler for his next fight. dana was directly asked that question and said he had no problem with it. thats why this is a *\"welterweight\"* fight", 
        "Looking yoked.", 
        "From The Machinist to Batman. ", 
        "Was it Chael who called it a \"heist\"? That Conor seems (\"seems\", this feels to conspiracy) to have very tactically targeted 145, then moved up the chain as he blew up.\n\nI feel dumber writing this now :)", 
        "Conor's not as hungry anymore.", 
        "Those lat gains jeez", 
        "2spoopy", 
        "Man, this is the reason he 'obliterated' the whole featherweight division, he was a lightweight/welterweight who never belonged there", 
        "Yea, that's the reason.", 
        "I don't think he's a welterweight. 168 today indicates he basically walked onto the scale. 169 or 170 and you could say he maybe cut a couple of pounds. But weighing 168 today suggests he normally walks around under 170. I wouldn't be surprised if he was 165 cutting to 145. He's a lightweight really.  ", 
        "Hes said before he walks around at about 170 but would diet to around 160 before cut\n\n155 seems to be the best in the era of cutting, he probably wouldn't have to diet at all in camp", 
        "I suppose one thing I didn't consider was up until a week ago he was planning on 155. So you're right he was probably being a lot more careful. Should he take a welterweight bout he would come in a lot heavier. ", 
        "So no one else in the UFC cuts weight? Welterweights walk around at 200 he would be way undersized there.", 
        "I'd be much more suspicious of him being on \"illegal shit\" when he weighs in at 145lbs than now. All the perceived \"gains\" from 145lbs to 170lbs seem quite reasonable to me. \n\nThat \"maintaining lean muscle mass while I'm starving myself\" 145lb look is fucking suspect as hell.  ", 
        "Looks fat", 
        "Conor looked like death at 145 and I understand why his coach doesn't want him to go back there.", 
        "Fuck Conor looks like hes on his deathbed at 194 weight ins compared to this that some difference.", 
        "McGregor really is a little man. Nate seems to dwarf him", 
        "Looks like all that touch-butt paid off", 
        "to me it looks like conor has put on about 5lbs of muscle max. the rest is fat.", 
        "Looks like he lied though, he def cut for 168 contrary to to what he claimed.", 
        "23 clean lbs in 12 weeks?", 
        "Most of it is water and fat with some muscle", 
        "He cuts a shit ton of weight to make 145...he just didn't cut weight and at a bit more ", 
        "15 pounds water, 5 pounds muscle, 3 pounds full belly of food.. Sounds about right.", 
        "I dont know why, but after watching all these events for fight week, I fookin hate Conor McGregor.  He's starting to have that Rhonda Rousey attitude, and I hope Nate submits him after fucking his face up.", 
        "I could envisage a submission but he won't get his face fucked up. ", 
        "I tried to explain this to the haters who said Conor would be shit above 145. He is only going to get better at these weights.\n\nThat said, as a huge Conor fan, I have a feeling he is going to have a little trouble vs Nate and I really hope he does not underestimate Nate's ability.", 
        "Conor doesn't seem like the underestimating type. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Wow, this is the same man less than 3 months ago.", 
        "I remember how fucking gaunt he looked at the weigh-in. I was legit worried for him. \n\nWorries turned out to be a little unfounded...", 
        "Wow USADA IV van really got these fighters bodies changing", 
        "ITT:  People with no idea what they'd look like at that bodyfat percentage because very few people ever get that lean.", 
        "At least he has muscles. I'm 145 and 6'2\" and would love to look like that, haha", 
        "You're 145 6'2 wtf. You need to eat something.", 
        "Oh yeah. I have too much on my mind to eat though", 
        "Nah you gotta eat fam, and lift some shit, come over to r/fitness we will treat you well.", 
        "Looks fucking complacent to me. ", 
        "Touch Butt crew is going down\n", 
        "If you told me the first picture was from the irish famine id believe you.", 
        "Diaz bros and Mcgreggor are fucking friends ", 
        "Obviously a big difference but it's being exaggerated by the high contrast lighting in the 145 shot is. Look how dark those shadows are, probably edited even.", 
        "The top photo looks like a person who cut a lot of weight before a weigh in. The bottom photo looks like just a regular day. I feel like he hasn't fully moved into this weight class. ", 
        "He looks like he should naturally be in this current weight class. If he was cutting weight to his detriment until now and STILL winning.... O.O", 
        "Just gonna leave this here \nhttps://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/humor-sapiens/201305/ufc-fighters-who-smile-fight-lose-more", 
        "This is how it should be.  Extreme weight cutting is retarded", 
        "I'm a mcgregor fan but there's no denying he's on steroids. Dude put on weight in a short amount of time and managed to put on mass and stay lean.   ", 
        "He didn't get that much bigger; he just stopped holocausting himself.", 
        "No way dude.  even putting 5 pounds of muscle should take about 5 months.  Like I said he's bigger and still lean.  I'd put my life on the line that he's on the juice.  ", 
        ">Putting on five pounds of muscle should take about five months\n\nlmao, what?  No it fucking does not.", 
        "Yes it does.  Even the biggest natural weight lifters can't put on more than 2 pounds of muscle a month.  That's why there's bulking and cutting seasons.  Do you lift? ", 
        "He flinched.", 
        "I feel like I could run away from 145 Conor without much effort. I wouldn't want to be within 10 km of 168 Conor.", 
        "This is  Conner, this is Conner on meth.", 
        "He looks like a feral beast out for blood in the top pic. He looks like a frat douche who just got laid for the first time in the second.", 
        "Mcgregor flinched when Diaz made a feint. Uhhhh", 
        "Maybe he'll grab the mic and do some crazy WWE speech after winning! WWE is the best, and that's why I want MMA to become an absolute mockery of martial arts.", 
        "\"You\u2019ve seen Conor on salads\u2026 now watch what he\u2019s like on steak.\"\n\n- John Kavanagh", 
        "Holy shit that's tragic. ", 
        "Those events are tragic, but they have nothing to do with why DC hates Jones. They both said they disliked each other from introductions. Jones claims DC was butthurt because he didn't know he was an Olympian. DC claims Jones snobbishly said he didn't know who DC is. With two egos as big as theirs, the animosity and tension grew over the years.", 
        "Jones hasnt been tested for PEDs or drugs like cocaine since he was allowed to train again, has he? This feels like a fight that Dana is allowing his \"star\" to get around the rules. Since he was suspeneded from UFC and was able to get around drug testing.", 
        "He didn't \"get around\" testing, he was suspended from competition pending his trial and wasn't eligible for testing. Dana has no control over who the USADA tests, or how frequently. Jones would also only be tested for coke when he fights, as it isn't banned outside of competition. \n\nNot saying there's no way that Jones hasn't used PEDs but making it seem like there's a conspiracy by the UFC to allow JBJ to juice is pretty ridiculous. ", 
        "Dana booked the fight as soon as possible. Which allowed Jones to \"get around\" the testing because he was still suspended from the UFC. A convienent way for Jones to get around drug testing, both illegal drugs and PEDs.\n\nDana also allows Jones to eye poke after 5 fights of him doing it. The refs never give a shit about it, but when Anderson Silva and Bisping do it once, theres a timeout and a warning.\n\nConspiracy.", 
        "He became eligible for testing the minute he was reinstated by the UFC (which happened in October) and a championship match nearly guarantees a test. \n\nThe eye poke thing doesn't makes sense either considering the Mitrionne fight...or is he part of the conspiracy too?", 
        "It's even worse.\n\nhttp://m.nydailynews.com/archives/sports/wrestling-heavy-heart-daniel-cormier-gold-article-1.522819\n\nHis dad was also killed when he was little.\n\nThis guy has dealt with some awful things.", 
        "When DC came to the UFC they let the fans know about this.  Now the narrative is gone, but it's a real shame.  This story was what made me a DC fan to begin with - the fact that he overcame such horrible shit to be who he is.  He also survived the murder of his father - by his step-grandfather.  Let's all cheer this guy as the champion he is.  DC is one of the greatest fighters of all time.", 
        "> DC is one of the greatest fighters of all time.\n\nYou just took it too far.", 
        "Unlike your Brazilian fighters who all seem to be getting popped for steroids.", 
        "Name one LHW who has ever competed (not named Jon Jones) who beats him on his best day?  And don't say Rampage, Shogun, Liddell, etc...  That will just prove how little you know.", 
        "To be the best you must beat the best. DC hasn't beaten Jones.", 
        "Well sure. But no one is saying he's the best. It was *one of the greatest*.  That could be the best, or the second best, or even the 5th best. He doesn't need to beat Jones to prove he's second behind Jones.", 
        "Alright. Then I am one of the greatest. Not 1st or 2nd.... Not even in the top 1000 but I am still one of the greatest ", 
        "Is English possibly a second language for you? Because \"one of the [best, worst, most ____]\" a very common phrase in the English language. It means \"nearly the [best, worst, most ____] but not necessarily the very [best, worst, most ____].\" It's used to denote someone/something that fits the descriptor at a high level without having to deal with the semantics of someone else arguing that something else deserves a spot above it.\n\nIf I say Cormier is the best LHW of all time, you're going to tell me I'm wrong because of Jones. If I say he's the second best, someone might argue for someone else. If I say third best, someone might complain that he's not listed as second. All of this takes away from the point that's trying to be expressed; that Cormier is really fucking good. However, stating \"one of the best\" is a descriptor that can be used for Jones, Cormier and a couple others without the need to argue semantics over which placement the individual deserves vs others when those semantics aren't important to the point being made. Sometimes someone wants to tell you that Cormier is better than everyone but Jones and is willing to defend that specific placement amongst other LHW. In that case, they'll tell you he's the second best. But sometimes someone just wants to say that Cormier is a really good LHW, in which case \"one of the best\" is the correct descriptor.", 
        "> All of this takes away from the point that's trying to be expressed; that Cormier is really fucking good. \n\nLOL i thought you were being serious until I read that. You had me going", 
        "Exactly why he said minus Jones. DC is easily one of the best lhw's ever. How can this be disputed? ", 
        "He didn't say the best, he said ONE of the greatest.", 
        "Liddell made a career out of ko'ing wrestlers. If they competed in the same era I could see Liddell winning. Same with Shogun, definitely not Tito though.", 
        "Liddell was KO'ing the Tito's of the world.  It's a much different ballgame when Chuck's in their with an Olympic wrestler who also have really good hands.  Tito's striking is shit compared to DC's.", 
        "I don't doubt DCs skills, but this is the same argument in every sport. Chuck was ahead of the game for a majority of his career and DC is standing on the shoulders of giants. Chuck COULD beat DC and he made a career beating DC's prototype of fighter. I dont understand how anyone could say Chuck COULD NOT win.", 
        "Liddell would have no answer for the clinch. You can't sprawl & brawl against someone who rag dolls you from the clinch. ", 
        "Youre right. But again, Liddell's entire style was about avoiding clinching and takedowns.  Rhonda is a clinch fighter and has the highest finish rate of any fighter ever from the clinch... Yet what happens when she can't get there?", 
        "Prime Liddell has the power to KO anyone, but I don't think he KO'S daniel, and he definitely doesn't win a decision. It'd be close for sure. ", 
        "Agreed.  DC withstood Rumble's power, so I'd be confident he'd be able to take Chuck's. ", 
        "Are you saying none of those guys could beat Cormier on their best day too? Because '05 Shogun was straight up killing dudes", 
        "So dont say some of the best lhws ever? Why even ask him the question if you're already discounting all the most likely answers? \n\nFrankly you're NOW going too far (dont think its too far to name him one of the best) by implying shogun liddell or jackson have no chance in their prime against DC. ", 
        "I guess that's a fair point.  I'd argue DC over any of those guys, but you're right that it's just my opinion.", 
        "Id bet on him against any lhw and heavyweight in history whos name is not Jon Jones", 
        "Prime Fedor would be close, but I still think DC gets it done. ", 
        "Prime Fedor would have mauled him. ", 
        "Nah.", 
        "lol if anyone actually believes this", 
        "no, I don't think so.", 
        "Too bad we'll never know. ", 
        "it is too bad indeed.\n\nFedor v Black Fedor ", 
        "or Fedor.\n\nI think Werdum gives him trouble too.\n\nBut he's top 5 LHW all time, I'm sure.", 
        "Id absolutely bet on him against Fedor, Fedor was such beast because  alot of people were not on the same level grappling which means he always had the threat of doing that, but Cormier is not most people when it comes to wrestling.", 
        "Fedor beat Randleman, Big Nog (twice), Coleman, and Lindland, all of whom were great grapplers. Even though Lindland was smaller, he still had an Olympic wrestling silver medal, and Coleman was in the Olympics too.", 
        "And none of those guys were on DC's level when it comes to standup and mixing your striking with your grappling", 
        "You were originally talking about grappling, not standup or mixing it up. I don't know who'd win between Fedor and DC, but it's a different era so comparing skillsets is like comparing a prime Shaq to a prime Wilt Chamberlain. The game's progressed a lot.", 
        "Yea, I kinda fucked that up, but Fedor was one of the first people who had great standup and great striking, but I think Cormier isn't afraid of either, and he is able to withstand the grappling of Fedor while still having great striking unlike most people Fedor faced", 
        "I think DC is the greatest LHW of all time aside from Jon Jones. Chuck, Couture, Tito, Shogun, Rashad - DC would throw them all.", 
        "What about a prime Fedor?", 
        "Fedor is a heavyweight.", 
        "And dc beat  some very good heavyweights,  to boot.  KO'd Bigfoot, manhandled Barnett, dominated Mir and Nelson.", 
        "Damn forgot about that. But yeah, I was getting pissed when they were booing Daniel. It just sucks he couldn't articulate it well and the crowd continued to boo him.", 
        "hes got like 2 lhw fights", 
        "His father was murdered? What happened? Gang violence or something?", 
        "Murdered by his step grandfather.", 
        "Thanks for this. I posted the highlight of the exchange between the two and one thing that got to me was how much people were using whatever logic they could to make Dc the bad guy. \n\nI'm a jbj fan but no one should deny that dc is morally the better person here", 
        "Hey, I just want to thank you for this post. I didn't know that and I understand DC better now. ", 
        "I became a fan of DC's after I saw his highlight takedown/slam against Josh Barnett when he also had a broken hand (I don't quite remember if he broke his hand before or after the slam). \n\nI never actually knew about this story about his family. Didn't even know the UFC tried to promote the story so thank you for sharing.", 
        "I thought he broke his hand after dropping bigfoot. ", 
        "I remember when he fought Pat Cummings and the guy claimed to have made Cormier cry during practicing for the Olympics. Then it came out DC was extremely emotional over the lose of his daughter had very little to with him having a bad day at practice.", 
        "Fuck, Pat must have felt like the biggest arse after that came out. ", 
        "Speaking of Cormier's Olympic bid, his wrestling career is something that needs to be put into perspective. \n\nHe had a very long and successful wrestling career before he started MMA. \n\nA lot of career wrestlers don't or barely make it thorough their college career due to injuries. \n\nCormier is something special with regards to that. It's hard enough to wrestle as long as he did, but then to enter MMA after all of that? \n\nHe's a beast of a man, a physical specimen. Cael Sanderson might have beat him in College, but Sanderson's body hasn't held up   as long as Cormier's has. ", 
        "> A lot of career wrestlers don't or barely make it thorough their college career due to injuries.\n> Cormier is something special with regards to that. \n\nThat's the same for every Olympic sport. Olympians all push there bodies way past safe levels.  The people who don't make it to the Olympics are often just as talented as Olympians but their bodies failed on them.", 
        "Even though athletes aren't paid in college, if you do full time sports in college, it's referred to as a career. \n\n", 
        "who where you trying to reply too?", 
        "Parse the discussion if you don't understand the context. \n", 
        "right back at you.  no one was confused about what a college wrestling career is.  I was asking because you clarifying a common term added nothing to any point of any discussion in this thread so I was curious if you meant to respond somewhere else. ", 
        ">A lot of career wrestlers don't or barely make it thorough their college career due to injuries. \n\nA lot don't, but a lot do also and continue competing.\n\n>Cael Sanderson might have beat him in College, but Sanderson's body hasn't held up as long as Cormier's has. \n\nNot really. Sanderson just wanted to get his Olympic gold and start a new phase of his life (which he has been dominating btw)- it's not like he was hit too hard by injuries. Cormier might have done the same if he was ever able to win gold at worlds or the Olympics.", 
        ">  but a lot do also and continue competing\n\nVery very few. My kids were career wrestlers, I have a special take on what's involved. \n\nIt can be a brutal sport. Even the ones we know that are in college right now and having successful careers we know to have had some injuries they're going to be feeling in middle age and beyond. \n\nMost of the kids I know wrestling at a high level in college have had surgeries to repair one thing or another. Those that haven't had surgery I know to have ailments that are affecting them now, and will eventually end their careers. ", 
        "Everyone has wear and tear- but it's exaggeration to act like most ex-college wrestlers are so hampered by injury that they can't compete anymore after a little rehab and time off.\n\nThe college season is much more of a grind compared to training on the senior circuit or in MMA. Most college wrestlers don't stick around for that because they aren't that good and want a regular job/life.", 
        "> but it's exaggeration to act like most ex-college wrestlers are so hampered by injury that they can't compete anymore.\n\nThat's as bad as denying pro football players aren't permanently physically affected by their careers. \n\nMost college wrestlers were raised on off season competition, and most of them train and compete in their off seasons. \n\nNearly all of the best wrestlers started when they were young, and wrestled all year. ", 
        ">That's as bad as denying pro football players aren't permanently physically affected by their careers.\n\nA sport based around collisions and brain injury is hardly a fair comparison. Wear and tear on the joints and ligaments in wrestling is a real thing, but they can be managed MUCH more effectively than football injuries.\n\n>Most college wrestlers were raised on off season competition, and most of them train and compete in their off seasons.\n\n>Nearly all of the best wrestlers started when they were young, and wrestled all year. \n\nStill doesn't mean a significant portion of top college wrestlers aren't healthy enough to compete for some time after college.\n\nIt's somewhat difficult to overtrain as a teenager, and college coaches are getting better at preventing overtraining, despite the packed schedules.\n\nAre you willing to put some estimate out there as to a % that's healthy enough to compete after college? All I can say is I wrestled at a successful D1 program and have been following a lot of peoples' post-NCAA careers on the senior circuit and in MMA. I'm not too banged up myself either, though I've had my share of minor injuries.", 
        ">I wrestled at a successful D1 program \n\nI have to question that considering your commentary on injuries. Very often career wrestlers have spinal injuries. \n\nDo I need to make a list for you of former wrestlers in MMA that have had spinal surgeries? They didn't initially injure their spines in MMA either, they did it wrestling. \n\nBoth of my kids have had spinal injuries. My older son was signed on to wrestle for the Wyoming Cowboys when we found out he had issues with his cervical spine. \n\nAs far as brain injuries, concussions are relatively common in wrestling.  Head to head, head to elbow, head to knee, and lots of head to the mat via awkward throws. \n\n", 
        "I believe that.  I used to be a pro wrestler for two or three years;  Had some nasty injuries that don't bother me now, but know full well I'll be feeling within the next decade.", 
        "Man, what if Cael ended up in MMA? I have this thought every few months. ", 
        "It surprises me to see Mormons box or do MMA. Don't see that very often. \n", 
        "It's the Affliction shirts. The skulls and flames are too much for Utah.\n\nSeriously though. The man clearly has a smart combat mind (turning PSU into a powerhouse). I believe he would have been an amazing fighter.", 
        "There's a lot of Mormons in wrestling, and their motivation to wrestle has to do with historical accounts of Joseph Smith and his supposed love for wrestling. \n\nThere'd probably be more successful Mormon wrestlers if they didn't have to do bible study during high school(mornings before school) and if they didn't take issue with wrestling on Sundays(off season events). \n\nI'm not, but most of my family is Mormon. \n\n", 
        "Thank you for sharing this story to begin with. I do know that his daughter was killed in a car accident (watched some short documentary) but didn't know about his friend's / cousin's death. I'm also kind of embarassed that I saw DC being \"salty\" at times for calling out Jon Jones for doing things that he shouldn't have done, I was just blindfolded by all the internet hating trolls, the way you described it completely makes sense. ", 
        "Whoa, wtf... this is almost Keanu-level misfortune.", 
        "What happened to Keanu?", 
        "I think his wife and daughter died about 18 months apart or something. ", 
        "Mother and girlfriend I thought?", 
        "Didn't he kill them both himself? ", 
        "Damn that must be tough.", 
        "And his father abandoned him and his mother when he was a kid. ", 
        "His best friend also died of an overdose. His dad went to prison when Keanu was young and then abandoned the family. Mom got remarried many times and moved the family all over the world. ", 
        "Fuck. That really Fucking sucks. ", 
        "His major childhood wish was to be a hockey player, but he broke his leg and he had to stop playing. ", 
        "They killed his dog.  \nEdit: Thanks for gold, kind stranger!", 
        "i just really hope that's how the sequel gets going. ", 
        "Fuck, man...  This one really hits home.", 
        "Father, daughter, cousin, friend? Nothing. \n\n\n\nDog? That hits home ", 
        "thatsthejoke.jpeg", 
        "I was talking about my dog today and someone thought I was talking about my son, I don't have any kids. If my dog was hit by a car I'd become a version of batman that had no problem killing people.", 
        ">When DC was a child his school friend was killed in a car accident. A year after that his cousin was killed in a car accident. But worst of all, in 2003 his infant daughter was killed in a car accident.\n\nis that how it all happened? I knew of the deaths but not how.\n\nI honestly dont get why people dislike DC  ", 
        "I honestly think a lot of people dislike him sheerly because they want to be on the right side of history - they want to be on the side of the champion, when all is said and done. Jones could go down as the baddest of all time and people want to be on that side of MMA history. Just my opinion...maybe a little generalized, but I think that it's true for a ton of fans.", 
        "Supporting your fighter doesn't mean you hate the other one", 
        "He's easy to dislike.  Vey easy.", 
        "Explain", 
        "He's a tosser he expects people to like him cause he's not a bad guy, everytime he picked up the mic I cringed at what he was saying.\n\nNo one likes the \"hero dad\" persona.", 
        "It's not that people don't like DC, it's that Jon Jones is the best fighter on the planet and people love a dominant champ. \n\nI regular these forums and I can't remember if I've ever seen words strongly against DC.", 
        "DC is the Jeb to Jones' Trump. He complains when Jones talks shit. Why don't you just play the game or talk shit back? Complaining just makes you look like a kid snitching on their sibling", 
        "From a publicity standpoint you can't be the champ and shit on other people. It doesn't even matter if you're in the right. The fact is that you are seen as above other people so it's a bad look to attack the guys coming up. It looks like bullying. That's why people hated Jones the 1st time he fought dc and love him now. That's why people hated Cruz as champ but love him now as the come back kid\n\nThat's the difference between being the champ and the challenger. Especially when dc wants to pretend he's the adult in the room but whine about Jones like a child. It's just a bad look even if he's right. ", 
        "I'll tell you why I dislike DC : he only plays the good guy card, that's not why I watch UFC cards, I don't really care about what the fighters do outside of the octagon as long as it doesn't hurt other people or stop them for getting in the ocatgon (so I was angry at Jones for both but I'm willing to give him the benefit of the doubt on him getting his life together). \n\nIt seems that according to him, his number 1 quality is being a good guy in his life. He's just not the best LHW in the UFC, he knows it so he only goes on and on about Jones fucking up in his private life because he knows Jones is a better fighter than him. All I see is weakness from him when he trash talks Jones.", 
        "His number one quality is being a great fighter. He has defended the title against Gus, who has come closest to besting Jones, and Anthony Johnson, who everyone wants to see fight Jones... DC has already beat him.", 
        "> He's just not the best LHW in the UFC\n\n", 
        "Jon Jones recent DUI hit and run is not his only incident where he's driven recklessly.  He's long past the point where one should be giving him the benefit of the doubt.", 
        "I'm a fan of DC regardless of this. Does make me respect him and his positive attitude more. I think this is a great guy to have on your side and I hope he keeps on commenting well after his active career. ", 
        "I love DC, one of my favorite fighters. Really hope he can have a great fight vs. Bones.", 
        "I don't dislike him, and I don't think booing him necessarily means they don't like him as a person or anything. \n\n\nTo me, his personality is just boring/corny as fuck. He talks about how he's such a 'good guy' and a 'role model' like people are supposed to give a fuck, and that is annoying. I don't give a shit if you're a good role model for kids dude, this is MMA and kids arent buying the pay per views. The demo for this sport is like 18-35 and your're trying to be a role model to kids? Stfu and say something interesting or just don't.\n\nLove watching the guy fight, can't stand listening to him speak.", 
        "Does anyone actually hate DC? I thought anyone who disliked him only felt that way because they're jones fans and there's bad blood.", 
        "> I honestly dont get why people dislike DC\n\nI sympathize with the guy but he keeps attacking Jon Jones for mistakes he made in the past. Whether Jones has changed or not is debatable but you are not going to win any fans by saying you are not an addict. That's just kicking a recovering addict when they are down. It comes off really douchy. ", 
        "> he keeps attacking Jon Jones for mistakes he made in the past. \n\nIn the past, ai. a month ago.", 
        "Jones hasn't changed. Drumming up some beef for the cameras is one thing but Jon has been caught being a real asshole off camera.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm not arguing Jon Jones has changed. Please read my comments. ", 
        "Not really, because Jones has shown himself to be incredibly disingenuous. Since the beginning, everytime he gets in trouble, he plays the contrite churchboy then goes right back to doing stupid shit and being a pompous asshole on social media. There's no reason to believe he ever changed, making his recent \"turnaround\" incredibly suspect.", 
        "True. Jon takes the standard disingenuous serious voice everytime he's trying to act like he's changed and learned his lesson. DC called him out on it, and Jon did the whole \"Wut? I can't hear you. What did you say?\", which to be fair was a pretty sweet strategy to buy him some time to think of a response to save his face.", 
        "You're absolutely right about Jones but as someone who has had a problem in the past, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt and say he likely is genuine about putting the alcohol and drugs behind him. I really like DC but imo the smack talk about drugs is not cool because when he says those things it affects more than just the one recovering addict it is directed toward.", 
        "Right, it's debatable if Jones changed but casual fans are not following the MMA media as much so they don't really know as much about the guy's character. Either way, you are not going to win fans when you interrupt a guy talking about substance abuse and say \"well i have never been an addict!\" A normal response would be like, \"I hope you stay sober\" not shoving your sobriety in your face and asking them if they want their dick sucked.", 
        "> I honestly dont get why people dislike DC\n\nBecause Jones hates him, and Jones is God to these people.", 
        "> I honestly dont get why people dislike DC\n\nPeople are assholes?", 
        "yup a lot of people are just negative assholes thats the sad truth", 
        "Well the crowd was full of Irish people.  They aren't really fans of being respectful the way DC was acting.  They want fights and drama and mayhem.  It's unfortunate.", 
        "Unintelligent was my thought.", 
        "Because not everybody has to like the guy with the saddest story?  \n\nIt's entertainment, not a competition over who's the best human being. ", 
        "The hate DC gets just seems confusing to me.  Then again he was in front of a bunch of drunk Irish hooligans yesterday.", 
        "Stop saying it was the Irish. You're not Irish. The majority of us would favour DC, we all know about the eye pokes, the illegal elbows, the drugs and driving. Irish people in general hate that shit. \n\nOh yeah downvote me. Fucking wankers, what if someone said it was all those black people watching causing trouble. ", 
        ">what if someone said it was all those black people watching causing trouble. \n\nThey'd be wrong, because it was the Irish. \n", 
        "Did you watch the press conference?  The crowd was packed full of Irish people.", 
        "The people booing or cheering never spend time with the fighters, don't have to live with them or interact with them in any way. Who or what they are as a person isn't important to 99% of the people who will watch Jones and DC fight. It has no impact on their enjoyment of the fight and that is their primary concern, the circus that is the weekend of the event. ", 
        "I like him, but I think people see him as a boy scout who will never beat Jones. Therefore his talk about Jones makes him seem petty.", 
        "I don't dislike DC, I think he's endearing like a sitcom Dad who happens to be tough; I daresay Officer Winslow-esque. But I'm a through and through Jones fanboy, so he'll always have my vote.", 
        "I think a lot of people just love the spectacle aspect of mma so they gravitate towards jones who is superior in the cage and in trash talking. If you look past all that though you can see that Cormier is just generally an awesome human being and for that I can't root against him.", 
        "> I honestly dont get why people dislike DC \n\nAt the time it came out the Embedded for Cain vs Werdum turned a lot of people off DC. When he went over to Werdum and co. at breakfast he started acting like Werdum had crossed some sort of line of racial decorum by calling Cain an American and now Cain was going to go Super Saiyan and really hurt Werdum.\n\nIt came across like an asshole kid in school hiding behind the reputation of a bigger kid's name.\n\nI know he was bullied in school and whatnot but DC occasionally gives off the same vibe others who been bullied and become bullies themselves do.\n\nNot everyone picks up on it but enough do and don't feel especially warm towards him.", 
        "> I honestly dont get why people dislike DC \n\nBecause people like the confident mean guy no matter what he says or does. It's why McGregor is popular, why Jones is popular and why Trump is popular.\n\nWhich reminds me, Trump 2016.", 
        "It's the sad decay of civilization.", 
        "People loved Tyson and hated Holyfield.  People love fuck ups.  They have the same power as a a natural disaster.  They're compelling.  You can't not watch.", 
        "Yes but don't forget people loved Tyson before he fucked up. That guy was, like a fucking machine. Based purely on his movements and precision, I really think he might be the best boxer of all time...unfortunately he couldn't keep it together and got beat by every elite rival of his generation later on in his career. But before he fucked up everything, he was so fucking good.", 
        "GSP, Forrest\n\nPeople like those that are humble too.", 
        "I think that's why GSP is so loved. He was an amazing fighter and PPV draw but was still a genuinely nice dude.", 
        ">Trump 2016.\n\nThat's like saying \"Secret Wars without Congressional Approval, 2016\"", 
        "That happens with any candidate though. \n\nThink what you want, but there is no better candidate left in the pool of candidates. I do not want Hillary as our President.", 
        "What I'm saying is Trump wants give himself the ability to declare war OVER congress. While I dislike BOTH candidates equally, the idea of Trump as a dictator terrifies me.", 
        "The American system is set up so a President can't be a dictator...it's like when I hear people say \"We can't have this guy with his finger on the nuclear button!!\"...first of all, Trump isn't actually crazy. He says crazy shit to get attention and votes. He isn't going to build a wall, he isn't going to ban Muslims, and he's probably not for torture any more than Obama was (Obama was for torture like every President). Secondly, the President can't just launch nukes, he can order them but the Secretary of Defense has to approve it. He also can't override congress...we won't have a dictator.\n\nI'd much rather have him then that fucking Batman villain Hillary Clinton though. I'll also have to hear about how we have a big strong womyn as President, first woman president, blah blah blah feminism for the next 4-8 years. Hell no, fuck that. I'd even take BOINIE over that mess.", 
        "The man is a [fraud](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DnpO_RTSNmQ), as is Hillary for that matter. What makes you think he's the best candidate though? genuinely curious. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "HAHAHA https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=umqvYhb3wf4", 
        "No clue what that is but I'm assuming it's John \"I wish a migrant would rape my wife\" Oliver, so I will pass on clicking it.", 
        "Hahaha", 
        "Just FYI, trump literally cannot beat Hillary. He polls horribly with almost every single minority group and there are far, FAR more minorities when you are talking about the country as a whole. If you don't want Hillary as the pres voting for Bernie is your best bet (although that seems to be less and less true every day.... Goldman Sachs wins again!)", 
        "Fuck Bernie and Fuck Hilary. I again don't give a shit about some goofy polls. She'll crumble against him in debates.", 
        "Dude, trump got his lead by insulting people, entire race groups and appealing to \"making America great again.\" Name one minority group that would vote for him even if he miraculously became strong on policy. You can't. \n\nAll of the candidates who could beat Hillary in a policy conversation OR an election have been knocked out by Trump. You can't just insult other candidates and non-whites forever and hope to win a country that is primarily non-white... ", 
        "> Name one minority group that would vote for him even if he miraculously became strong on policy. You can't. \n\nThere are plenty of Hispanics and Muslims that have said they'd vote for him. Do a google search. You seem to think that insulting people makes you unpopular...you haven't been following along.\n\n> All of the candidates who could beat Hillary in a policy conversation\n\nYou really think that's how elections are won? Policy conversations? No one but Trump can beat Hillary. No other Republican candidate ever stood a chance.\n\n> You can't just insult other candidates and non-whites forever and hope to win a country that is primarily non-white... \n\nWooo boy. You think America is a primarily non-white country? No wonder your views are so messed up.", 
        "You contradicted yourself a few times now but the most telling one is this: \"you really think policy conversations are how elections are won?\" But prior \"I don't care about polling numbers he would destroy hillary in a debate!\" \n\nYou're right about that last part though, the country remains primarily white. And in that population Hillary STILL polls better. Ah but you don't care about polls....", 
        "> You contradicted yourself a few times now but the most telling one is this: \"you really think policy conversations are how elections are won?\" But prior \"I don't care about polling numbers he would destroy hillary in a debate!\" \n\nNot a contradiction at all.\n\n> You're right about that last part though, the country remains primarily white. And in that population Hillary STILL polls better. Ah but you don't care about polls....\n\nI don't. Won't mean jack shit when we hit the general election, Trump will sway tons of voters, especially young people. Lots of people hate Trump, but many more hate Hillary. ", 
        "Bernies campaign is over. \n\nThe numbers he needs to win would be the single greatest turnaround in the history of the United States.\n\nIt simply cannot happen. ", 
        "Conor McGregor fans especially are the Trump 2016 of MMA fans at this point. Watch any McGregor press conference. They hoot and holler no matter what he says.\n\nANd I think McGregor is quite funny a lot of the time. But he also says a lot of dumb, petty, unfunny shit. And when they are cheering for that too, it gives you a good idea what they are all about, lol.", 
        "And both McGregor and Trump are WINNERS", 
        "HIGH ENERGY post", 
        "Well, McGregor has proved himself in his field.   \n\nTrump has to preform in a general election and as a leader before you can consider him a \"winner\"", 
        "He's getting the Republican nomination for sure, which is like the Interim belt.\n\nThen he's coming after the undisputed belt by defeating Hilary with ONE PUNCH.", 
        "I see it playing out more like Trump is Gary Goodridge and the Democratic candidate is Fedor Emelianenko.", 
        "You guys put way too much stock into Hilary Clinton and how many people are switching from Bernie to Trump because they don't want to vote for her.", 
        "Maybe, probably get the nomination, the convention is going to be rough, most of the GOP is worried he will lose in a landslide and take the party with him. \n\nAs far as the general, that's going to be *really tough* for him.  [His nationwide favorability ratings are some of the lowest in history.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cb3XxqOUsAApk_8.jpg:large) He's popular with about 37% of the GOP, but that's not enough to win a general, especially when you're as vilified and mocked as he is. \n", 
        "LOL he's going to completely destroy Hillary Clinton in the election, dog.", 
        "You seem like a confident supporter of his, but even the optimistic polling available doesn't have him winning any general by more than 1%, even against Hillary.  \n\nWe'll see. ", 
        "I don't give a shit about some goofy poll made by Politico or something...even the Republicans want him to lose so everyone is trying to make constantly make it look like no one would actually vote for him.\n\nI'm not so much of a supporter of him as a person who does not want either Democratic nominee to win.", 
        "Trump was born rich and went bankrupt several times.  ", 
        "You do realize he owns like over 100 businesses right? Bankrupting a business is practically unavoidable when you run dozens and dozens of them. He has been far more successful than unsuccessful business-wise, hence why he's a billionaire.", 
        "He filed bankruptcy for his huge business which is The Taj Mahal in Atlantic City.  It's not like it was one of his minor businesses that went bankrupt, this is The Taj Mahal we're talking about.  \n\nAnd yes, it's easy to invest in businesses when you start with millions.  Have you not heard the saying, \"The first million is always the hardest\"?", 
        "Yes and turning a million into several billion is also pretty hard. If it wasn't, every movie star would be a billionaire.", 
        "None of us know what his net worth is.  Several billion?  And it's disputable how much he inherited from his father.  Many people say he inherited multiple millions.", 
        "I'm sorry this doesn't have to do a lot with MMA because it's boxing related, but Tyson Fury seems like a a big time piece of shit. I don't know, but I saw a documentary of Tyson after he beat Klichschko, I saw a completely illiterate asshat. His ideals are ridiculous and regressive. That is the kind of guy I would never be a fan of. \n\nMcGregor seems like he can be a chill guy when not on camera. Or at least toned down a bit. But I really don't know much about McGregor to judge. John Jones on the other hand, has repeatedly done retarded things that make him seem like a jackass. It's so sad too because he's an amazing talent. He's not throwing his talent away. He's just not giving his talent the person it deserves, if that makes any sense. His ability to work hard at what he's good at got him to be a great champion. His personality has taken that away. Everyone's heard this before, it's nothing new.", 
        ">  he also says a lot of dumb, petty, unfunny shit. And when they are cheering for that too, it gives you a good idea what they are all about, lol.\n\nPeople just like who they like?   \n\nThis isn't about political beliefs that impact your worldview, it's fucking entertainment. \n\nConor is entertaining. ", 
        "Found the guy laughing at the unfunny shit.\n\nPeople like what they like. Some of us like making fun of people who laugh at stupid shit. Why are you trying to impinge on our lives, man?", 
        "You're the one judging masses of people and saying they \"laugh at stupid shit.\" \n\nI'm not stopping you or impinging at all, sweetheart.  \n\nI just pointed out that not everybody likes the same thing, so to judge people based on what you like is odd. ", 
        "Sorry you like stupid shit. It's a tough cross to bear, I'm sure. But you'll make it, kiddo. Anyhow, bored of your inbox notifications.", 
        "Weird post, what have Conor McGregor fans got to do with Daniel Cormier?\n\n", 
        "Because it was Conor's fans who were present and booing DC yesterday.", 
        "Man that shit bums me out. I like McGregor because I find his style (fighting not suits) interesting and his fights are usually pretty entertaining, but the shit talking has created so much idiocy. This sport has always attracted bone headed fans, but it seems particularly bad with these guys.", 
        "VIVA LA BRAZILLA!\n\n", 
        "What was petty?", 
        "Thats a stretch. He is the most entertaining fighter and showman at the moment, that's all", 
        "Yea Chael Sonnen was very entertaining during his time and the Diaz brothers continue to be.", 
        "The most entertaining fighter is a stretch. He's definitely the loudest though. ", 
        "Yeah thats why he has highest ppv, cause he's loud", 
        "I mean it is", 
        "Yea i guess knocking out a 10 year holding champion in 13s was just par for the course, right?", 
        "Nah, Conor's a certified legend after that", 
        "When did I say that? I said he has the highest ppv cuz he's the loudest, explain to me why Chris weidmans or jon Jones numbers weren't as good when they were undefeated champions", 
        "Conor's TKO/KO % is 89, while JBJ and Weidman are in the 40s. People like to see knockouts, and moreso they like to see fights stay standing. At least, thats my guess since thats what i like and im new to MMA. That, and his enormous persona created by the shit talking and predicting. But shit talking isnt enough or else Nick Diaz would be getting a lot more money right?", 
        "Because they are both elite wrestlers and Conor has just been knocking people out?\n\nThey appeal to different people.", 
        "Ya he talks a lot of shit and repeats his lines and sells the fight. He's entertaining in that sense sure I just don't think he's the most entertaining fighter is all, inside the cage. ", 
        "Thats my point, you dont get to his numbers by just being loud. His performances in the cage have complemented his persona outside of it. He might not be THE most entertaining fighter in the cage but as a whole he is miles ahead of everyone else. To be honest he is what made me start watching MMA more regularly, not just because he's fun to watch but because his style is beautiful and intelligent. ", 
        "Ya people like the brash loud arrogance. I get it. He's brought a lot of fans. It's happened before to a lesser degree. Chuck, lesnar, rousey etc. It's how the sport grows. It's just really annoying when you've been watching for as long as possible and waves of new fans come in and just lose their minds and act like their guy is the second coming. ", 
        "When he's funny, he's funny, and it's fine to laugh.\n\nI'm talking about the people still laughing even when he's not funny.", 
        "Oh shit...I guess they forgot to ask you when something was funny or not.", 
        "Well, when your sense of humor sucks, expect to be critiqued. Sorry about your snowflake fantasy.", 
        "See also: Chael Sonnen", 
        "Yes because UFC fans at the events were always such queeky clean good behaving dudes before McGregor...", 
        "right. so tired of this grouping all conor fans together. It's like calling all of Rousey fans radicalised feminists or something. \n\nAnyway, just let it be. People are having fun and showing passion. So sick of the complaining.", 
        ">implying objectivity\n\n>team conor tag", 
        "You mean objectivity, right? I'm a huge fan of Conor. And? Fuck outta here lol", 
        "Goes both ways. Conor just happens to have one of the worst bunch of fans due to his newfound popularity. If you know you aren't part of them, don't sweat it.", 
        "I've likely been a big fan of Nate before most of the people with the flair on this sub (no hipster). I'm not allowed to say anything overly positive about conor tho or I'm a \"groupie\". Reddit has been cancer lately. Also, why aren't I allowed to have fun and quote conor? Some people are just bitter and want to suck the life out of shit lol", 
        "Look at my comment, pretty neutral but it's now negative because of the emotional attachment people have and the nugget of truth it brings.\n\nYou are allowed to say whatever you want. If you care about downvotes then I guess you should just go with the current hive mind to cancel out your pro-conor comments.", 
        "It's not really the downvotes. It's more the fact that this is the best place to discuss MMA. And on that last sentence... that's exactly what too many people do. That's the reason it seems the whole sub has done a 180 in terms of opinion on conor. It's like all the pussies have been holding their opinions in to keep their internet points. Ironically, Diaz is all about being real too.", 
        "Ah, never thought abut it like that. You're right though, you gotta go with the flavor of the week to have a \"discussion\"", 
        "I agree but it's annoying when every time you post something positive about McGregor someone has to say \n\n> Team Conor\n\nIt's a cheap way to not argue the point. ", 
        "I haven't really seen this specifically, but it'll happen regardless. I've seen a ton of people give shit retorts and terrible responses all over the net.\n\nEdit: Reddit is probably my least favorite due to the voting system", 
        "McGregor hasnt been to jail, been caught with a coke problem, ran away after hitting a pregnant woman with his car, or eye pokes his opponents to death.\n\nTwo totally different people.", 
        "Yes of course, I'm more talking about their attitudes. Both shrug off any criticism and people love them more.", 
        "Outside of skill (and for Trump I don't get it at all) I've never understood the appeal. All three guys are just assholes. With Jones he's not even trying to appeal to the fans who enjoy mean confident people...he's just an asshole. Dude is a good fighter but he has never shown an iota of character outside the ring. From snitching on kids in high school, to holier than thou Jones, to coke head Jones, to heel Jones the guy has always been a grade A cunt. At least McGregor and Trump are making a conscious effort to market themselves to the masses, Jon is just a cunt being himself. I like watching both Jones and McGregor fight, but McGregor shtick doesn't appeal to me and I've made my feelings on Jones perfectly clear. In fact, McGregor would be tolerable/entertaining if he wasn't the poster boy for 'new money'.  ", 
        "Personally I love Jones it might be because I love the fighting and because he says what he wants or it might be the fact that he doesn't care about what people think of him. To me that's very respectable.  On his IG he post things about his wife, guns, cats, things that are cool to him. Why does he have to be this role model that people want him to be, when his job is to beat another man to a pulp for a living?", 
        "He doesn't, and people are allowed to like him. I enjoy watching him fight but why should I enjoy him being a dickhead because he 'speaks his mind'? It's not really an admirable trait when there are no consequences. To each his own, like you said they're professional fighters not role models.", 
        "I don't think Jon Jones has anything on McGregor in terms of character. McGregor is an entertainer and knows how to play the game just like Trump does.\n\nJon Jones is simply a cunt and a despicable human being. ", 
        "You may be right here, but both have the same effect on their fans.", 
        "Make the light heavyweight division  great again!! We'll  build another octagon and get the middleweights to pay for it!!", 
        "Not cool dude, calling them middle weights is racist. ", 
        "Yeah, I didn't like DC before he got the belt, but he seems like a legit nice guy. I wouldn't have boo'd him I just didn't like his fighting style.\n\nI'm glad he got the chance to be the champ, I think that's going to come to an abrupt end soon though.", 
        "If all this happened to me and my fighting nemesis ended up being this drunk driving, hit and run, red light blowing guy.... That'd be a lot to deal with.  I think DC hasn't come out and made the connection directly because it's an incredibly painful thing to talk about.", 
        "Dc already hated Jones before he got in the hit and run situation. I think you are really stretching here and hoping to get dc some more fans. People are cheering for Jones simply because he never lost and is the \"real champ\" ", 
        "Jones has a DUI way before the hit and run.. sometime early in 2012.  DC wasn't vocal about his hate back then, infact DC wasnt even in the UFC yet.", 
        "Wasn't the lady JJ hit also pregnant?", 
        "Why does her being pregnant make it worse?", 
        "I don't get why you were downvoted for this, it's a legit question. Jones got fucked up and smashed a woman with an SUV. It's bad enough as is, but somehow it's not as bad, really, until you compound it with pregnancy.\n\n[Who will think of the kids? The kids! Save the kids!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLVMnaCHdyo)\n\nEdit - Well hot damn, I got downvoted too. Here I thought this was a fight subreddit, when apparently it's a lactating daycare for oversensitive babies. My bad guys, testosterone clearly isn't your thing. If I'm already being downvoted though, why not double down?\n\n[Fuck you, you indoctrinated child worshipping cunts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-ryuJDTpEc)", 
        ">Collin McGranger flair\n\nReasoning level checks out", 
        "Well, if Jones hit a wanted ISIS-supporting child molester that would have been not such a bad thing, right? \n\nSo, if the innocence of the victim plays in to how we feel about Jones' actions, then the opposite must also be true, and it makes hitting a pregnant woman and fleeing the scene a pretty shitty thing to do. This is how human emotions work.", 
        "putting 2 lives at risk..", 
        "Her being hit could have killed her baby. That's why it makes it worse.", 
        "Do you have fucking Down Syndrome or something?", 
        "Jones could have killed a baby due to his irresponsible behavior. DC's kid got killed in a vehicle accident, meanwhile JJ has done the things that cause that.", 
        "For the same reason why if a pregnant women is murdered, the murderer is charged with two deaths... ", 
        "That isn't true because the key point people keep bringing up he hit a PREGNANT lady. If the car had three people, people wouldn't keep saying 'he hit THREE people' they would just say he got into a car accident. Hence my question why it's such a big deal he hit a pregnant lady", 
        "because she likely carries her hopes and dreams in her child and if she had lost that the emotional pain could leave a scar that lasts far longer than the physical pain if it were only her", 
        "Does this question need an answer? ", 
        "He's being edgy guys", 
        "It's got something to do with dead babies I suppose.", 
        "Not caring if you've just killed a baby, but coming back for the money you forgot in the car *might* be something that's commonly frowned upon.", 
        "Not defending Jon Jones, but it's not like he *knew* she was pregnant", 
        "He would've known if he maybe bothered to check. But I guess he had more important stuff to do though, like drugs", 
        "more like get rid off drugs, so he wont go to prison", 
        "That's hilarious considering your flair. I love pot but it's a drug just like coke or even caffeine", 
        "Exactly. Like somebody else said in another thread, this incident is the perfect example of *why* you shouldn't run from an accident ", 
        "I disagree. It's a great example of why you should run when you're intoxicated.  There's no evidence in 24 hours.  You claim you hit your head and you were confused, the  you were scare because you ran and were worried you'd get in trouble for running.\n\nWorks great if you have money. ", 
        "From a selfish standpoint, only thinking about himself, he likely made the correct decision and avoided additional charges and maybe serving time. Obviously not the morally correct.", 
        "He came back for his cocaine and/or alcohol.", 
        "Yes", 
        "Did she lose the baby?", 
        "Nah,she broke her arm tho I believe", 
        "DC has always kept it real and role-model'ish. Except when it comes to Jon Jones. He seems real emotional about it AGAIN. And this time Cain is also injured and unable to help DC prepare? Not good. Like a repeat of the first fight.\n\nI just pray to god DC will land that sick combo like he did to Big Foot in Strikeforce. Jon needs to be humbled. I can only hope.\n", 
        "I think it's safe to say that Jon was humbled by the very public incidents that caused him to be stripped of the title and wiped from the UFC rankings. The guy's lucky to have not received jail time. He's brash and confident, but I don't think that there's any reason to argue that he needs to be humbled.\n\nIt honestly seems like he's trying to get his shit together and hopefully we can see him come back and start right where he left off. Also, I was very surprised at the crowd's response to Jones at yesterday's conference. People love the guy. Barring his antics outside the cage, the dude is a super athlete and one of the most exciting fighters to watch. ", 
        "Dc is scared. That's why he's tripping so bad. Jones barely did anything and dc broke down. It doesn't look good for Cormier. ", 
        "I want to see some crazy headkick KO. There was a hilarious heavyweight headkick KO which was like a weird hook kick that looked so awkward to watch...something like that would be perfect. ", 
        "DC threw a ridiculous jumping headkick thing once if memory serves correctly. It wasn't even close to landing.", 
        "Against Mir.  He got some good air time, too ", 
        "That shit was HILARIOUS. I think it was the question-mark kick (Disclaimer: Not a kick-expert) from Shawn Jordan that you're thinking of. ", 
        "That's exactly the one I'm talking about, thanks! ", 
        "\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ret9M_8qCiA&ab_channel=Golf-News", 
        "... Did he do a backflip and the end?", 
        "Yup, I can't believe they cut that.", 
        "In all honesty while training with Cain isn't going to hurt, Rockhold would probably be his best tool in terms of sparring partners for Jon.", 
        "DC found a lot of success in that fight, but it was almost entirely tied to his cardio. He needs Cain for his grappling cardio, Rockhold doesn't have good cardio.", 
        "That's probably because Rockhold has a huge cut. I'm sure it will be better when he's just training with DC.", 
        "Cain's back in training in the next 1.5 wks.  With or without that though, I think this is a DC who's been through the ringer a few times, been five rounds, and felt the despair of falling short of his dreams again.  He's probably 2016's biggest underdog, but part of me thinks he has it in him.", 
        "Jon Jones is going to dismantle DC...it's gonna be brutal.", 
        "He's an ex heavyweight with bombs at the end of each arm. He definitely has a chance to land.", 
        "Didn't Jones kind of walk through the best DC had to offer in the last fight?\n\nJones didn't KO him, but it's hard to pretend it was anything but lopsided.", 
        "Jones was better than DC at the takedown game, Jones took him down several times (his first times being taken down in ufc) and actually used them, I think DC took him down twice but they didn't mean anything as Jones was back on his feet seconds later.  \nThat means it goes to standing up, where Jones has the skill and reach advantage, but DC is good there too and has power in his punches.   \nIt wasnt lopsided though, for a round or two I actually thought Jones was going to get knocked out and it was close ", 
        "> Jones was better than DC at the takedown game, Jones took him down several times (his first times being taken down in ufc) and actually used them\n\nNo, he didn't.\n\nJones landed a grand total of *one* strike on the ground. He didn't do shit there, people were just impressed that he got Cormier to the ground at all and have been exaggerating it ever since.", 
        "I thought he only took Jones down once in the 5th, but maybe I'm misremembering. It really didn't mean anything like you said, by that point he needed a KO. It seemed like it was more of a moral victory than anything. Just to be able to say he took Jones down after trying for 4 1/2 rounds. ", 
        "Couldve been only once, I thought it was twice though. Been some time since I've seen it. It's definitely an accomplishment, IIRC that was the first time Jones had been taken down too ", 
        "I know that it was the first time DC had been taken down, but didn't Gustaffson take jones down a couple times? I think that was the first time. ", 
        "That actually sounds more right, yeah ", 
        "I want him to win so bad. Imo his best chance is to go hell for leather out the gate, forget about winning a decision, but if he can keep an insane pace and pressure for the first 3 he could tko Jones who is used to pacing himself, especially in the first round, he's a slow starter. ", 
        "I don't understand why people don't like DC.  His fights are exciting, he has slams that would make Rampage jealous, and he is just a nice guy.  He's also one of the most skilled fighters in the game, he does certain things better than anyone has yet and it can be pretty amazing at times.  \n\nI think he beats Jones this time. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This is one of the dumbest comments I've ever read.", 
        "What was it?", 
        "He was basically saying DC's a marshmallow with an annoying smile.", 
        "He needs to beat Jones at wrestling in order for him to win. If Jones negates all take downs attempts, then DC needs to use his speed and footwork to get in combos and dart out of harms way. If he fails at both, then Jones will win again. The guy is too strong, too tough, and has reach advantage over everyone.", 
        "He's everything that is right about the sport.  I just don't see him winning this one.", 
        "DCs fights are not more exciting than say Jones. Striking is always viewed more favorable than grappling unless you are knocking dudes out with slams like Rampage. DC has always struggled to sell fights because the King of the Grind wins fights, but isn't so entertaining. ", 
        "He had all those things when he first fought Jon and still lost decisively. Now he's dealing with a stronger more determined Jon Jones and DC hasn't shown much difference in his last fights. \n\nNot sure how you think he beats Jones this time. Objectively it's a harder fight for him this second time around.", 
        "Maybe I don't think Jones is more determined, maybe I think his focus is on other things more than this fight.  Maybe I think his time off and outside the ring troubles are going to show you a greatly diminished Jones.  ", 
        "Fair enough, although you're still expecting to see a lesser version of the Jon Jones that first fought DC, rather than expecting a better version of DC to beat him.\n\nIt'd be very interesting from a spectator perspective to see if Jones truly became his biggest obstacle to his own success instead of having someone prove to be actually better than the best version of himself. ", 
        "I don't think the DC that night could never beat the Jones of that night.  If he had a different game plan just slightly, and a bit more focus he could win. ", 
        "While I appreciate you arguing the other side, you watched the other fight, yes? This is not a movie where \"intangibles\" like more heart will win the day. Jones beat Cormier at his own game. That's what makes it terrifying. And while you can claim his time off will make him rusty, all the updates have shown a determined, cut, beefed up Jones. I love DC, and absolutely loathe the man Jones is. If it was up to me the dude would be in prison. But other than just hopes and wishes, there's nothing that shows to the naked eye that DC will beat Jones. He's older, has been through more wars since their last fight, and is emotionally invested too much. I'd bet the house on Jones.", 
        "Was with you til the last part.\n\nI'll be rooting for DC as always, but I think Jones is going to ruin him in this fight.", 
        "Jones hasn't ruined anyone in a long time.\n\nChances are, he wins by decision again.", 
        "You can still ruin someone and win by decision.  Jon is angry and he is jacked.  DC's gonna get fucked up.", 
        "Let's be honest...the ill demeanor from Comier to Jones started before the accident. ", 
        "Before the last accident, his DUI was in... I want to say 2012", 
        "A DUI isn't the same as an accident.", 
        "He crashed it while drunk and got the DUI ", 
        "This is *entertainment.*  People cheer(ed) Jones and McGregor and Sonnen because they're *entertaining* not because they're the nice people.  \n\nI agree that Daniel is a good dude, we all know that, but the UFC and MMA is not a competition for who nicest person is. \n\nIt's a meritocracy of fighters and the ones who entertain fans are the ones who people like. It's simple.  \n\n", 
        "I think we've gone full circle with the pro-wrestling personalities, because it's sure as hell damn hard to cheer for people who are just *nice*. Mighty Mouse, Robbie Lawler, Frankie Edgar, DC, they have people who appreciate them but it's the Ronda Rouseys, the Jon Jones', the Nate and Nick Diaz's and the Conor McGregors who really draw in the fans. People who are larger than life and have this hook in their personalities that people really like\n\nI remember watching a clip of The Rock coming back to the WWE after like 10+ years and he's standing in the ring with John Cena. Like, any other day Cena gets all the cheers but as soon as The Rock comes in it's just flipped\n", 
        ">I remember watching a clip of The Rock coming back to the WWE after like 10+ years and he's standing in the ring with John Cena. Like, any other day Cena gets all the cheers but as soon as The Rock comes in it's just flipped\n\nTotally untrue. Cena is probably the most polarizing figure in pro wrestling history. Kids and Women cheer for John Cena, but the much larger and louder demographic of adult/teenage males, almost always boo the shit out of him. It has been this way for years now.", 
        "i still think its a stretch to compare McGregor to Jones. Mcgregor has a lot of respect for people, and i feel that he wouldnt do a hit and run like JJ", 
        "Oh, *absolutely.*  I only meant in terms of trash talk, McGregor wouldn't be considered a \"nice guy\" like DC.\n", 
        "Oh then yeah hell no", 
        "It also helps if you're a really talented and skilled fighter...", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "And within that context, DC isn't in any way worthy of boos.  He may get beaten by Jones, but let's not sit here and pretend he's some chump getting by on his image.", 
        "*worthy of boos* \n\nThere is no such thing. People get booed and people get cheered based on entirely subjective reasons. ", 
        "What people tend to forget (and I agree it's always number 1 that is interesting) is that DC has only lost to Jones and even if the fight wasn't close, he still just lost 3 rounds (in his entire UFC-career until then, also had not been taken down). DC has beat all the other big names that Jones beat. Imo (you might disagree on this) DC would definitely be a contender for the HW belt I'd even say that in LHW + HW Jones followed by DC are the best fighters. So if you go on a little stretch DC could potentially be the 2nd greatest fighter ever (if we agree that jones is the GOAT). \n\n\n*ps: yes I admit this is somewhat of a stretch, but it's not completely unreasonable. Also we have yet to see Jones vs Rumble which will be amazing hopefully* ", 
        "Don't you dare mention DC and GOAT that title does not deserve that tarnish.", 
        "People on here get so emotionally invested in which fighter people should like or dislike that they forget that we're watching fucking cage fighting.\n\nI don't want to watch the p4p nicest guy in the division over the p4p best fighter in the division. People would rather watch Overeem fight than watch Justin Wren fight and there's a good reason for that. No one would argue that Wren isn't nicer.\n\nNot a hard concept to grasp.", 
        "> I don't want to watch the p4p nicest guy in the division over the p4p best fighter in the division.\n\n*Exactly.*", 
        "Irish fans are just stupidly onesided sometimes. Look at our undying support for Conor. So many of us completely neglect anything bad about 'our guy.'\n\nWhen Joe duffy was getting the shit beat out of him on the ground by Porier, a friend of mine kept saying \"well this is bullshit\" to which I replied \"well to be fair, he's losing\" and he said (half jokingly) \"No, we either win or its bullshit.\" \nThe Irish crowd didn't like DC, and did like Jones. It really irritates me in this situation, DC is a solid guy. ", 
        "I mean I'm english and a lot of people over here are like that too. It's just passion. Let it be. People get passionate about sports. It's part of the fun. It can go too far sometimes but understand it for what it is. However, when it goes too far and the person isn't self-aware enough to know what they're doing... I get finding that annoying.", 
        "That's the thing about Irish fans.. We're not good at a lot of things, but we love supporting our own. Especially when they're any way decent! Its cool to see.   \n\nSome of my friends are so far up McGregor's hole they flat out refuse any critisism he gets, like the closed fist thing the other day. I try and take a more objective view but I still fall into this mentality the odd time. \n\nAnyway I hope Jones beats DC. I still like DC, but Jones is just more entertaining, which is who I usually root for in any fight bar McGregor's!", 
        "I think weidman is also part irish.  Do irish ufc fans support american irish?", 
        "I'm not Irish but I think I got this one.\n\nNo. Not unless he grew up in Ireland. \n\nI wouldn't cheer for an American with Danish parents or grandparents either. ", 
        "To be honest I have never heard anybody say they support an American fighter because he has Irish roots, but I'm sure the casual crowd from any country would respond to the sight of their flag.\n\nWhat people don't seem to get about an Irish crowd is that we tend to treat things as pantomime. The things occuring on the cage or the stage have their job, and as a crowd we have ours, which is to be loud and vocal and involved. Hero's and villain's are elected and impeached over the course of 15 minutes. A perfect case in point was UFC 93, when Tom Egan fought Hathaway. Egan came out like a hero, and Hathaway got booed as the villain of the piece. After he had won the fight Hathaway received a massive cheer from the crowd. He had done his job, fought his fight and gotten his win...and in doing so he had earned the respect of the crowd that was heavily in support of his opponent. That's just how we are, doesn't matter where the fuck you are from or who you are, you can earn your round of applause from us by just doing your job. ", 
        "We dont consider american irish people as irish so no", 
        "how come?", 
        "They grew up in the US? They're culturally American?\n\nBecause they would feel like absolute foreigners in Ireland?", 
        "Would you consider me American because my cousins are american? That's basically it. Like 5% of the population leave every year, and have done for decades. They go everywhere so there's lots of people who have a connection to Ireland genealogically, but other than that we have nothing in common, especially with Americans. I've seen a bit more respect here for the Boston and NY Irish communities, because there's a lot of 1st and 2nd gen immigrants in those parts. Not Bob from Kentucky who's great grandad moved from county cork. We just are completely different cultures and groups.", 
        "Well why would we? IMO if the person was born in Ireland they are Irish, if one of your parents is Irish then you are half irish half the other parents nationality but it would depend on where born. That said maybe people here would support CW because he is part Irish but it certainly wouldnt be the same as what you see with Conor. As said elsewhere here we love our teams, a look at the way our fans behaved at the last Euros would show. We love a piss up and following our team/athlete", 
        "Most of us follow teams in GAA, soccer, rugby or whatever so I think it's only natural that we're pretty one sided when it comes to Conor as he's one of our own. The support for him and behaviour regarding it is very similar to what you'll see in team sports.", 
        "Daniel Cormier's life story really is quite tragic. \n\nIf you don't know about it all, Mr. Ben Fowlkes wrote an INCREDIBLE piece on his life hardships back in 2011. Go read it now if you haven't: http://www.mmafighting.com/2011/11/23/the-indestructible-man", 
        "Do you mean your friend and mine, Mr. Ben Fowlkes?", 
        "great piece wow", 
        "The ending few paragraphs. Wow, indeed.", 
        "The MMA fanbase is disgusting. Combat sport fans in general, in my experience anyway, have been very shit.\n\nDaniel Cormier is a good person, and I find it very easy to root for him because of it.\n\nI cannot say the same for Jon Jones, who is an amazing fighter, possibly the greatest of all time, but his character is distasteful. He's the Mayweather of MMA, but worse.\n\nI will always root for DC over Jones. In fact, I'll root for pretty much anyone over Jones.", 
        "Good post.", 
        "No, it isn't. It's nothing but conjecture with not a shred of proof. OP is just guessing stuff. \n\nI can do the same and say that DC is angry because Jones is more loved, more appreciated, more thought of as the real champion, despite DC's hard work and painful dedication. Jones was in legal trouble and did questionable things, and yet DC was booed and doesn't get respect, while Jones gets all the appreciation; that's enraging. ", 
        "Ya. DC has had a pretty tough road (no pun intended) to get to where he is at this point. I couldn't imagine losing a daughter, and yet he is still a very positive uplifting person. It was hard to see everyone booing him. It must be very hard for him to deal with hearing him get shit on by the fans, and to have them go crazy for Jon Jones. I wish him all the best in the rematch. I hope he wins so he can enjoy where he has gotten to properly, but I do not see that happening.", 
        "I'm trying to think of how that first line could be a pun.", 
        "Tough road. \n\nPeople he was close close to killed by cars that drive on roads, they were mostly likely on a road when they died. Not really a pun but Im sure that's what they meant, no joke intended ", 
        "Haha, got it. I`m dumb.", 
        "You think I'm just gonna sit there and suck your dick Jon? I mean really?", 
        "seriously why do people hate this guy? DC is the man ", 
        "for the most part DC haters me included do t like his prentious attitude on tv as a analyst. he does however have every right to be physically ill by the actions of Jon Jones. ", 
        "DC is a great dude, and I enjoy watching him fight. It just so happens that across the room from him was another great fighter with a \"comeback story\", who so happens to be the most charismatic piece of shit in the world.\n\nI was surprised he got the boos. Jones is a piece of shit, and truly I can see him fucking up again, and apologizing again. \n\nDC deserves some love for keeping that division interesting while Jones got a slap on the wrist for nearly killing a pregnant woman.", 
        "Honestly the fanboys that have been present at that conference and the Conor v Diaz one were just fucking awful. They literally cheered for anything that came out of Jones/Conor's mouths before they could even finish their sentences and at the same time booed everything Diaz/DC said. I feel like had Jones decided to kill a bunch of puppies on stage those mindless twats would have still cheered. ", 
        "Nothing DC said deserved cheering. He looks like an idiot when he tries to trash talk Jones.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Not denying that at all. Cormier looks like a fool next to Jones though,Jones is going to make him look silly aswell.", 
        "Mma fighters aren't supposed to say things that deserve cheering. This isn't a cheer contest. Their job is to go out there and fight.. ", 
        "Stupid comment. Media is huge in today's MMA.\n\n", 
        "Don't know how anyone could hate Cormier. He's one of the nicest guy ever.", 
        "no he isn't, he was throwing shade at Jon Jones before Jones ever was in that car accident", 
        "noob", 
        "He had a DUI long before the car accident", 
        "I'll be honest in saying I'm a huge fan of both.  I think Jon Jones is the GOAT, can't wait to see him fight again, hope he becomes HW champ and retires undefeated.  But DC is the kind of fighter fans are going to miss when he's gone.  I've been a fan long enough to know that.\n\nHow long have all the nut huggers booing him been a fan of the sport?  Something tells me they have no context for their opinions.", 
        "They were just drunk glory hopers. I wouldn't read too much into it. Everyone on here thinks jones is a cunt", 
        "\"Irish crowd\"? Don't act like you have a clue about an Irish crowd. This shit is getting fucking ridiculous.", 
        "Funny...loud immature nonsense always seems to accompany the Irish flags and the fools dressed as leprechauns.  We have more than a clue about the Irish crowd because we've seen the Irish crowd at their best and worst in numerous press conferences and post-fight events.", 
        "I know I shouldn't let it get to me but /r/MMA has never pissed me off as much. Imagine we said the crowd were terrible because the black fanbase was there supporting Jones/DC", 
        "Right? It's complete bullshit. ", 
        "Blaming the Irish crowd because they are high in numbers in a bit much.", 
        "They're making us out to be comic book villains at this stage, it's absolutely ludicrous. And you'll get down voted into oblivion for saying as much. ", 
        "At least no one is comparing you to the Brazilians yet.", 
        "I second this. Also implying that upstanding people wouldn't get over with us is equally ridiculous.", 
        "I honestly didn't understand what DC was trying to prove yesterday. Jon was talking shit to him so that means he hasn't changed? What compete and total nonsense.\n\nMighty Mouse talked a whole bunch of shit to Dodson before their rematch.. He even treated him quite condescendingly after winning. Look at the smirk and point he did to Cejudo at the face off yesterday. All that shit talking to his opponents does not mean he's a jerk or a monster or some kind of terrible person. No sensible person would argue that.\n\nJones talking shit to DC and calling him a pussy has literally nothing to do with whether or not Jon has cleaned up his life. Its all about what athletes and competitors have done since day one. \n\nPeople like Jones. He's one of the best ever. DC playing the \"poor why are you booing me\" card is slightly bs. Jones has been gone for quite a while, why is he surprised that people are going to cheer his return. \n\nDC has no problem making light of Jones' drug problems and problems with soberity on twitter and instagram because it makes him feel good/laugh, and takes a shot at Jones. But then at the same time he's upset that fans want to believe that Jones has changed and is trying to stay clean. \n\nDC's way of trash talking is to demean his opponents as opposed to bigging himself up. Before he fought Gus he kept saying that Gus's biggest fight was one that he lost. Now he's trying to paint Jones as some kind of unrepetnant monster who is pulling a ruse on everyone. And his proof of that is he called him a pussy...nope not buying it. ", 
        "Don't know why people down voted this. I agree with you on all points.", 
        "This is a DC circlejerk thread.\n\nYou can't say anything that could be construed as negative about DC or positive about Jones.", 
        "It got downvoted because he doesn't have his argument straight. DC didn't say what this guy thinks he said. He was attacking Jones character because he brought out his belt - not because Jones was talking shit to him.", 
        "What was that whole drama with Ryan Bader?. I never disliked DC and still don't really have any opinion of the guy, but his shit talking right after getting the belt was kind of off putting. It was like he's using his moment in the spotlight to put someone else down. What did Ryan say or do anyway?\n\nI kind of agree with your points, he comes off as being kind of condescending sometimes. ", 
        "DC said that Jon hasn't changed because he brought out his belt. Not because he was talking shit. You have the whole thing wrong.\n\nHe was calling Jon out for talking shit because up until that point Jones was not talking any shit on stage. Two different things. He wasn't saying Jones hasn't changed because he's still talking shit.", 
        "I feel for the loss of his daughter, really cant imagine the horror.\n Still, something about him rubs me the wrong way, he really annoys the hell outta me. JBJ seems like a dick but DC is just an annoying cry-baby. Plus, not too smart- at the presser he let himself be trolled so bad by JBJ that he ended up saying\n \"Am I the biggest pussy youve ever seen Jon?\n Am I the biggest pussy?\" \nJBJ- \"Yes Daniel, you are the biggest pussy I ever seen\".\nDC has already totally lost the fight, mentally he's a wreck. Close to a breakdown it even seemed.", 
        "Does he personally hate anyone who has gotten to properly, but I dont want to be sort of enslaved by these fucking stories i am on a losing streak.", 
        "I never knew this.", 
        "That's awful. Jones is a cunt as well. Jedi vs the Sith", 
        "The loss of his daughter...unimaginable.  He's a remarkably strong man.", 
        "Love DC as a fighter, but this really does add so much depth to his story. Thank you, OP!", 
        "Well shit man, I think you just got me to step across the line...", 
        "I like DC up until his verbal st pushes with Jones. What your talking about is heartbreaking and the UFC did a great job of telling us all that in one of their promos, I think it was before the Johnson fight, in fact I shed a tear. He constantly throws Jones past in his face and then yesterday, things said before the presser were his only ammunition, he is showing a side of him that no one really likes. He is trying to convince that Jones is a bully and we shouldn't like him for that reason. The problem is that we like Jones because he is a bully that can himself with amazing skills. He should talk about how and why he is going to beat jones and not boohoo he called me a name. At least he has dropped the bow tie.\n", 
        "Does anyone remember when he wouldn't take the Gus fight for his first  cut to 205 because he said there were no saunas in Europe.. Or when he was constantly disrespecting Weidman on live TV as the role of host after he defended against Machida because Rockhold wanted next and was at the table... Or when he took a spot in the Olympic wrestling team then failed to make weight... Or the smug campy video he made after winning the belt stating he is our 1 true champion?\n\nNot that he is a really bad guy and dude is tough as shit but I don't see what he has done to be this great nice guy everyone should love. Even everyone he works with at Fox picking Jones to whoop him...", 
        "This is a good post and anyone reveling in Jones' shit talk should be ashamed of themselves.", 
        "It's just his personality I hate, Cormier is the one guy that has me rooting for Jon jones, every time Jon jones has fought I was rooting for the other guy, but man Cormier just absolutely the most annoying smug personality, he's so fake.  I like Jon a lot more now that he's been real and hasn't been pretending to be a good guy.", 
        "You get what get with DC.  The fans will come back around when he is down in the second and comes roaring back.  I don't think he should fight with emotion ( though it may work for him) and that means with the fans that boo him too.  He's a genuinely good guy and doesn't need to ask for any fan to change their antics.  \nI myself haven't appreciated Bones since he fought Machida.  now, though I like to watch him, I'll just enjoy his fights and hope the other guy puts it to his cocky ass.  Here's hoping Cormier can take it to him.  ", 
        "DC is a great guy, but Jones will beat him.", 
        "Don't really like DC but solid post. Upvoted", 
        "Care to explain why you don't? I'm actually curious", 
        "I'm not a big fan of his attitude since getting the belt.  He's a great fighter but we all know who the real champ is.  ", 
        "> He's a great fighter but we all know who the real champ is.\n\nYes, we do.\n\nIt's Cormier, thats why he has the belt and Jones has a replica.", 
        "Lol, DC should consider himself lucky Jon Jones likes drugs.  Only way he would ever become \"champion\".", 
        "But how is that dc's fault? Should he turn down the belt?", 
        "No, and I'm not downplaying him beating Johnson to get that belt.  However, since getting the belt he taken this weird stance about his accomplishments and other fighters in the division as if we didn't see him get worked over by Jones.  Him telling Bader and Gustaffson they hadn't \"earned\" a shot even though his title shot fell into his lap through circumstance.", 
        "I posted this in a different thread:\n\n>That's what I don't like about DC. Him being a good person should have nothing to do with what kind of person JJ is. Think about good people you know. They don't go around constantly talking about how much better they are than so and so. It wears thin quickly, I find DC extremely petty and annoying. \n\n", 
        "He only does that in response to the fans and Jon Jones. It's not like he said he's a better person than Gus, AJ, Hendo or anyone else he fought. ", 
        "I know why he does it and I don't like him for it. I also don't like Jones, they both look like petty morons.", 
        "Yep, it's always surprised me how much people on reddit love DC because of this. I'd even go so far as to say that he's actually started more shit between him & Jones than Jon has, but he never gets blamed since he's constantly playing up how good of a guy he is. ", 
        "I never disliked the guy, I just don't think he wins against Jones in the rematch. Sometimes he's a little boastful but everyone gets that way, its just with Jon that he gets that way and it's perfectly understandable. ", 
        "I actually like DC. I'm not a fan of his but I respect him. I would like to see him beat Jones as well. ", 
        "DC isn't an angel", 
        "Jones is really a massive cunt hypocrite and he more than earned the way DC feels about him, even apart from his driving issues.", 
        "Great post man. I was already a huge DC fan, and I had no idea about this ", 
        "I personally don't think it's because people hate him or don't like his character, from what I hear a lot of people don't think he should have that belt and he has still to beat Jones so a lot of people think of him as fake champ or unproven. As for all the personal stuff, I understand that DC has beven through some tragic and sad experiences but who hasn't. To judge and hold a grudge against someone for a mistake when they are trying to improve themselves and learn from their mistakes, it makes DC look worse. What seems worse is how butt hurt you are cuz people boo'd a fighter you like and just blindly follow them and hate on Jones as well. Who honestly cares if a fighter gets boo'd, shit happens all the time.", 
        "So much this.\n\nDC's fan base seems to think everyone should love him because he's not Jones. It's ridiculous.", 
        "This is sad, and i feel for DC. In Jon's defense though- he was so humble, admited he had a problem and stated a few times that he was 6 months sober and genuinly seemed proud of that fact. I understand that not everyonne understands addiction, it is ugly and makes a person do things and act in a way that they normally wouldn't. I think that is what the crowd was booing. DC was basically kicking a man that was contrite and admitting that he had a problem and has been working towards fixing it. So I say good on you Jon Jones and fuck you Daniel Cormier fake champion.", 
        "Are you serious? Do you realise Jones was just caught speeding at WAY over the speed limit with no rego or insurance papers? When questioned by the officer who pulled him over, he played dumb. Apparently he didn't realise he was driving extremely fast. The dude has not changed. \n\nThen consider that DC's friend, cousin and daughter all died crashes. Fuck Jon Jones.", 
        "This is overly dramatic. \n\nBut good job insulting people from Ireland in the midst of your plea for people to be respectful.", 
        "The more I hear DC talk, the harder I find it to fault him. I really hope he can beat Jones.", 
        "lol this sub has gone full white knight for DC.", 
        "Is this a shitpost or not, I can't tell?", 
        "Giving some insight, and some info many of us might not know. Far far from the shitposts I've seen lately. ", 
        "I like DC, Mr. Morality and all.  Sure he talks way too much, but at least he's not a hypochristian, and he is true to himself.  The guy has serious grit out and in the ring.  Those shots from Rumble, and Gus - he took that shit.  Fuck Jon Jones, he's on steroids.", 
        "> Fuck Jon Jones, he's on steroids.\n\nAh, the classic \"the fighter I dislike uses steroids and my fighter is clean!\"", 
        "That's from the Nate,  Connor presser.   You guys are too wound up. ", 
        "Context matters.\n\nNate said everyone's on steroids, you accused only Jones after a long pro-DC anti-Jones post.", 
        "It's context. ", 
        "hyperchristian, or hypochristian? Not trying to be a prick; I just want to understand your sentiment a little more.", 
        "My own term for hypocritical christians.", 
        "That would probably make more sense said aloud since it starts with the hypocr sound and you could pronounce it that way, but the joke doesn't really work over text ", 
        "I should take you to all the parties. ", 
        "He had some success in the second round with those uppercuts.  DC should really consider trying to win this fight with his striking.", 
        "His striking is a tool to keep them against the cage to get a td, he would end up like Rhonda if he tried to bang it out", 
        "What you might have forgotten about DC: his first promotional push. ", 
        "Exactly, I felt so bad when the crowd kept booing him knowing all he's been through and he's never done anything wrong. He's an Olympian and UFC champion, whether Jones beat him or not he's the champ and what Jones did is not DC's fault. ", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OPZVjgZbx08", 
        "God, I forgot about that. Actually got chills reading this. He never brings it up when talking about Jon tho. He easily could to make people better understand but I'm sure he doesn't wanna open up that can of worms.", 
        "Even though he got a lot of boo's from the crowd, that doesn't necessarily voice the opinions of a lot of people spread across the globe. I've always felt he was a jolly good guy, plesant, polite with a great story behind him.\n\nStill think Jones will win, but how can you not root for the guy <3", 
        "Ive always liked DC", 
        "This explains so much. I used to think he was extremely judgmental against Jones (after all, none of us are perfect), but this helps put it into perspective. Thanks!", 
        "Don't work yourself into a shoot brother. They need to get PPV buys. ", 
        "Damn I did not know that, my view of DC has completely changed. ", 
        "don't get me wrong but, mma fans aren't the type of people to really care about morality, most just want to see good technique and brutality. ", 
        "I felt bad for DC you don't boo fighters people seem to think this is the WWE these are real people who just happen to fight for a living", 
        "Oh wow I had no idea. He should maybe tell his fans or did he? I think this makes the fight even more interesting, can DC overcome his rage and beat Jon? ", 
        "I personally don't dislike Cormier at all.\nIrish fans can be silly at times so I wouldn't buy too much into the booing other than mainstreamers cheering on a potential GOAT.\nPersonally, I would love nothing more than for him to beat Jones, Sadly I don't think it's gonna happen though.", 
        "Matt hammill", 
        "Woh had no idea. I wonder if JJ knows? ", 
        "In his shoes, we'd probably all be trembling wrecks still...", 
        "The scary part is that Cormier might've already given pre-powerlifting Jon his 5 best rounds...", 
        "Damn that is heavy ", 
        "I had no idea that happened to DC... that's crazy.  Honestly, I would think he would act like he hated Jon a lot more knowing that", 
        "Embrace the grind bitch!", 
        "\"Jon Jones' one great vice\" \n\nAhahahhaaha! \n\nSeriously, though, great post. ", 
        "Doesn't matter how sad DC's story is, come April 23rd Jones is going to beat that ass.", 
        "I didn't forget that, i had no idea ", 
        "Thank You.", 
        "I always felt like DC is such a nice guy that all his insults seemed more passive aggressive than anything almost as if he is reluctant to actually talk shit. So he'd rather just pick at Jones's character. ", 
        "\"I mean I get it - playing the upstanding citizen, Mr.Morality - it's not going to win you any favor with the Irish crowd.\"\nGeneralising and retarded comment.\n\nDC whinged too much and tried too hard to appeal to the crowd - that's going to put anyone off.  \nI like DC despite watching his earlier wrestling matches and I am rooting for him but that only because Jon Jones is an absolute cunt.  \nNot expecting role models in MMA but it's hard to back a cunt.  \n", 
        "Even if the hate is deserved, hating on Bones isn't going to make DC a better fighter, and it sure wont make Jones a better person. ", 
        "Yeah, I like DC too. He got tired and got dumped multiple times for sure , but I think people are forgetting he put work in from the clinch. Of course Jones is a beast but this isn't an easy fight. Cormier could certainly catch him. ", 
        "How many times did DC call himself a pussy? I lost count around number 5 or 6 from laughing so hard.", 
        "Good post OP. Thanks for the share.", 
        "Unless DC learns how to throw body punches lets all just accept that he's going to lose worse than he did before.", 
        "I think DC is great and has shown great heart in winning and defending the belt--seizing on an opportunity JBJ brought upon himself. He is undeniably a legitimate champion imo, even if he'll never be at JBJ's level as a fighter. \n\nI'm not going to put money on him in the rematch, but I'd love to see him put on the performance of a lifetime. ", 
        "I think everyone in the world who watchs MMA needs to read this thread. It r3ally shows you everything wrong with the shit talking era of MMA. Makes me really miss the days of GSP, Randy and Fedor", 
        "Yeah... I don't understand all the disrespect he gets. It's not his fault Jones can't keep his shit together. He's a great fighter. He beat Gus(who has come closest to besting Jones) and Anthony Johnson. Two solid title defenses.", 
        "And still the UFC light heavyweight champion of the world......... Jon bones Jones.  He's champ I don't give a shit what anyone says,  to be the champ you gotta beat the champ.  DC should move up to HW after he loses again he does not have the body for 205. I laugh at the all of you who think DC can win,  Jones owned him in the first fight. DC didn't do one thing better than Jones. Jones admitted to just looking to get a decision the first time but now he's back to kick ass,  I think we see the same Jones than ran through rua and Machida.\n\nSide note- yes I'm a Jones homer and no I don't care about his personal past (although hitting a prego is about as low as it gets) I watch UFC for excitement and Jones provides that. ", 
        "Jones is the master troll, gets into traffic accidents to fuck with DC via mind games.", 
        "DC isn't a bad guy at all. He's just trying so hard to get people to like him that it makes him look desperate. He's so humble against Johnson and Gustafson and his personality towards them makes me like him the way he is. The way he acts around Jones to me makes him look worse than Jones.", 
        "Daniel Cormier is one of the nicest guys in MMA, and a beast in the ring.  He's exactly the sort of champ I can love.  \n\nI think Jones beats him every time, but my god, I can't rightly put into words how much I want DC to put that man down.", 
        "DC is the champion we need, but not the champion we deserve.", 
        "that's incredibly sad.  But it doesn't take this context for me to like DC.  He's a classy dude and a hard worker.  JJ is a legend, but I'll be rooting for DC.", 
        "Man that is terrible, I would seriously die if I lost my kids. I love them so much. \n\nGive him hell DC.  I damn love you ", 
        "Was he seething about driving impaired when he posted a meme showing Jones as a crackhead?\n\nFor all the talk of DC being a great guy, 'one of the nicest guys in MMA,' he sure has no problem going full-on personal with his trash talking. You know what you'll never hear Jones mention in his trash talking - anything that OP just said above. But DC has no problem calling Jones a crackhead.", 
        "I've always liked DC. When he burst onto the scene and ran through that Strikeforce HW tourney I was an instant fan. I just wish Jon Jones didnt exist. \n\nIf Cormier could beat him I would be ecstatic. Just catch him clean once. If he doesn't he will likely be haunted by Jones until he retires. If he stays at LHW and Jones moves up he will forever be the #2 that has a belt because Jones left. If he goes back to HW and gets that belt Jones will probably follow right behind him. ", 
        "I had no idea he had an infant daughter that passed away. Holy shit.", 
        "Fuck I didn't know that, that is really horrible and I can see why DC would be reminded of it when he's around Jon. ", 
        "Remember when Cormier shoved that barista at the weigh ins that one time?  All of these fighters can be douches.", 
        "> In his shoes I think we'd all feel the same way.\nIn his shoes I would feel like a fucking [missile](http://49.media.tumblr.com/8b83fe2459fe24c5382a5a4c692c5e3c/tumblr_n9unt7qDkL1tcfs15o1_400.gif).", 
        "Wow didn't know any of this, good job posting this ", 
        "you're right.  i had actually forgotten the infant incident.  that's brutal.  good post. ", 
        "Only think in ufc what would me make more happy then holy head kicking ronda is if dc knock the fuck out of jon kraken jones.", 
        "Jones is hungry.. and for the first time in a long time, he has to actually fight to win. He is gonna whoop DC's backside.", 
        "I'm hoping he can compartmentalize his feelings about Jones and approach it from a pure competition standpoint.  I don't think he fights well angry.  I still feel like he let the emotions affect him more in his fight vs. Jones and I think it impacted his performance to a degree (cardio, stubbornness re: going after bad TD attempts after Jones got one, etc).", 
        "\"Champion\"\n", 
        "I am still a Daniel Cormier fan.  I am hoping he does well against Jones.  ", 
        "DC will still get rocked. Bones is on another level.", 
        "All that is information is news to me, much respect for DC - that is a ton he has had to overcome.\n\nWith that said, didn't DC already hate Jones in the first bout, before any of his vehicular issues, etc?  So while I'm sure that contributes, pretty sure he already hated JJ guts....", 
        "If you have ever felt a loss through DD or wreckless driving you are upset and what Jones has done.", 
        "This makes me like him more. Jones could arguably be the best P4P fighter but I cannot love him. DC has been very respectful, even in the lately conferences and interviews. He can't play the bad guy even if he wants to. \"Jon Jones get your shit together\" and toss the mic. The best \"bad guy\" impersonation that he did was wishing his worst enemy to be fine and back. Pure heart. Great champion.", 
        "that's the hard truth of reality fighting. the best guys arent necessarily always the good guys like in movies. ", 
        "Anyone who drives while drunk deserves far worst then the law allows. ", 
        "I don't think he is the champion seeing that he never beat the champion. He is a great guy and a great fighter. But until he beats Jones he isn't the champion. ", 
        "Honestly in that presser it looked like Jones got in cormier's head ", 
        "DC hated Jones LONG before the impaired driving thing ever even happened", 
        "I'm DC all the way.", 
        "Boo fucking booey booey booey boo.", 
        "he needs to replicate that miracle in the Strikeforce GP if he wants to win ", 
        "I didnt knew about this stuff\nI never like to listen about the personal histories because it feels like a tmz gossip thing... \nBut you made me realise that DC is one tough dude with a amasing relisience\nThank bro! \nI alreadu didnt like Jones.. now i will cheer for DC", 
        "DC has been coming off as a scumbag recently tho. He just can't seperate promotion from personal things anymore. None of his trashtalk this time around has been entertaining, its just a bunch of \"wow that was just personal\". I know some people like that, but (not to defend scumbag jon jones) everything he says about jones is about his druguse or other personal things.", 
        "I've trained w/ DC he's a smug fuck. Gloating 24/7 on national TV w/ a token belt is all fine & dandy until the rightful owner is back in play.\n\n ", 
        "Nobody believes you.", 
        "I don't seek validation from a group of beings I'll likely never meet.\n\nWas just making a statement based on actual interactions w/ the man unlike the lot that does it based on what they see via media.", 
        "I don't believe you've ever met him.", 
        "Your skepticism really affects me, not so much. ", 
        "He played right into JJ's hands by getting flustered ,the irish crowd are drunk retards so he should have known that and kept it simple,childish and WWE.I feel bad for DC but I dont want to be emotionally blackmailed into liking a fighter.", 
        "Fair points - I agree that's how he should have played it.", 
        "I think DC is more thick skinned than you think. He's a public person (with his job on TV and all) and he also laughed when he was trash talking with Jones. I think he's alright.", 
        "DC is a good dude, but Jonny gonna out the work on him. ", 
        "Man, after today's shit talking I really not only want DC to win, but also Luke to win too...GO full heel on new yorkers..", 
        "Everyone likes to act like an edgy teen by cheering for the bad guy Jon Jones. \n\n", 
        "I like Jon Jones more than most fans do but I think the people who booed DC are idiots, and I'm glad they'll stop watching MMA when Conor has his Ronda moment. ", 
        "Yeah DC is just not good at handling shit talk. He seems to not understand the basic rules. When he was sitting there, sweating in his suit and said \"You know what Jon Jones said back stage? That I'm the biggest pussy he's ever met and that I should suck his dick!!\" It's like dude, you're insulting yourself at this point. You're doing all of Jon's work for him. And then JJ just goes \"yeah you are the biggest pussy I ever met\" and DC is like \"See? See? Wow.\"\n\nI really think he should, at the very least, take a page out of Aldo's book. Or keep it short and to the point. When he gets all flustered and whiny it just makes him look bad.", 
        "i fucking hate jon jones but hes always going to beat DC. DC is just too slow and doesn't have that \"umpf\" factor.", 
        "DC just needs to speak shorter sentences, and focus on himself. La plebe won't empathize with him any other way. Don't be a doush like JJ or Trump, but speak in the same manner. Short sentences and to the point.\n\nGo DC!", 
        "wow, thank you for informing me. that really makes so much sense when you tie it all together. ", 
        "I didn't know that. It makes sense now.", 
        "I love DC, he gets better every fight. I even like that he's a nerdy family guy. ", 
        "I feel for DC; but Jon Jones didn't kill anyone in his family or anyone else for that matter.  I've had a family member die in a car accident.  Am I supposed to hate everyone who crashes their car?", 
        "Did you hear about Jones' most recent driving episode? You're supposed to hate people who endanger others on the road and have absolutely no intention of changing. The idiot played dumb when caught driving WAY over the speed limit with no papers or license. ", 
        "Yea I have heard it.  You can only control what you can control, there are idiots everywhere.", 
        "That's fair. I'm just responding to all the people bashing DC as if he's salty for no good reason. Jones IS a piece of shit - even if he isn't addicted to weed any more!", 
        "Jon is young and dumb, this is not an ideal combination.  If I was DC i'd be more worried about getting beat up again.", 
        "FUCK DC", 
        "What do those things have to do with anything? Its sad yes but because he has had some tough times in his life it somehow means fans aren't suppose to boo him or like Jon Jones? Does he personally hate anyone who has gotten a speeding ticket or a DUI? Would he hate Jones if he hadn't fled the scene and it was just an accident? DC comes of as incredibly unlikable. He gives off an \" I think I'm better than everyone\" vibe. Him saying he himself has been sober for more than 5 months? Well good for you DC, guess that makes you better than anyone who has had a substance problem and is trying to overcome it. Hope Jones knocks his fat ass out in the first.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Don't waste your $$.  Buy the ppv, that's enough!", 
        ">Don't waste your $$. Buy the ppv, that's enough!\n\nSeems like a conflict in interest.", 
        "You should never bet using emotion. Ever.", 
        "I hope DC finishes Jones", 
        "When he's doing what Jones told him to do backstage?", 
        "Think Jones told him not to look him in the eyes while doing it a la McGregor?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "The fuck? ", 
        "Yea.  I don't understand either. ", 
        "Nah", 
        "What a pathetic thread. R/MMA has turned into a self help group of wounded DC fans and Jones haters since the crowd booed Daniel yesterday. \n\nDC is not a nice person at all. He has a veneer of Santa Claus jolly. But he's a rabble rouser and carries a huge chip on his shoulder.  \n\nHe has gone at Rampage out of the blue, has promised to beat up Roy Nelson for Dana White, had tension with Frank Mir, had tension with Durkin, pushed Jones in the throat at the MGM, he asked people not to pick him in EA MMA when someone was going to fight Jones on stage (how pathetic). He wished he could spit in Jones's face, what a nice guy thing to do. He mocked Shogun and Jimi Manuwa as opponents when he was doing his cringy shittalking against Gus. He tons of ridiculous behavior.\n\nThe only reason he's considered a good guy is because he's contrasted against Jones and people who aren't that familiar with his history just see a Santa Claus act on TV. \n\nI'll be glad when Jones puts him away and closes that chapter and that annoying anal bead DC gets retired. ", 
        "So he doesn't like cars then. Got it.", 
        "He doesn't like it when idiots and assholes get behind the wheel when they aren't in any condition to drive. ", 
        "The discouraging thing to me is that DC is a fine role-model. I'm not saying people should consider athletes role-model, but that's what is bound to happen with kids. I grew up idolizing Jordan, Tyson and others myself even when my father told me I shouldn't. But DC seems like an upstanding guy to look uo to. He even works with kids. \n\nUnfortunately, it's Jon who's the stereotypical rich athlete that can't stay out of trouble with the law that gets all the love. It's quite disappointing. ", 
        "Thanks for the insight", 
        "People hate Boy Scouts like DC because they're so ashamed of all the fuck ups in their own lives. They see DC calling out Jones and to them it's like DC is calling out every bad decision they've ever made, and instead of acknowledging that and accepting responsibility, they just throw shade at DC.\n\nGo get im cormier.", 
        "That's the funny thing about it.  I'm a big fan of both of these guys.  I was rooting for DC as the underdog in their first fight.  But I've also fucked up many times in my life and am therefore rooting for Jones to turn it around.  Can't say I have a favorite in the fight.", 
        "I don't really like Jones as a person or Cormier, but I felt terrible for him getting shit from the crowd. Like, damn. Half the motherfuckers in that crowd would shit their guts out if they had to fight anybody, and these guys go in there and beat the fuck out of each other and then get booed for it, it's ridiculous.\n\nPersonally, I think Jones will win but nonetheless, Cormier is a great guy and doesn't deserve the shit he gets from people.", 
        "he only got boos as a joke people were having fun it wasn't anything against him as for the DC hating jones thing he hated jon since before jon car trouble ", 
        "Getting caught twice in like 6 years is a vice? Hmm I didn't know that", 
        "His fault for not reminding us. All he'd have to do is explain his annoyance with Jones' nonchalant attitude towards his own actions and how he's been affected by people like John personally", 
        "How odd is it that DC's greatest professional rival would end up committing a crime that DC's life has been greatly impacted by on numerous times and in turn leave a vacancy for DC to capitalize on? ", 
        "great post!!  Why is is so easy to root against the good guy?", 
        "I don't even know why they let Jones come back. He's an awful piece of shit who hit a pregnant lady with his car then *ran away*. I hope he falls to the bottom and everyone forgets about him.", 
        "Your hopes are in vain. I hope to win the powerball. We are similar, you and I.", 
        "I understand what you're saying but what does it have to do with fans cheering for arguably the greatest fighter of all time? This is the fight business.", 
        "To be fair the numerical mean of the the IQ levels in that building were well below 100 if you exclude the media and UFC staff", 
        "Dam casual don't hispect nobody.", 
        "Sigh", 
        "DC doesn't hate Jones bc of this.\n\nDC hates Jones bc when they met Jones said he thought he could take DC down, DC took it as a massive sign of respect.\n\nStop trying to make it seem like car crashes are all the end all be all here. It's ego for both men.", 
        "I understand that DC is a stand up guy and has dealt with his own adversity throughout his life but I don't like the way he acts so entitled. They way he responded to the fans yesterday was ridiculous, whether or not the boos were justified. He shouldn't have to pander to the crowd but he shouldn't talk down to them either. They like Jones because he's entertaining, while DC is just spitting off lectures. He seems very out of touch with the audience. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "He hates Jon cuz he knows he can't beat him even on his best day and jon's worst slightly drug impaired day", 
        "That's cool and all but the fact that he calls himself the LHW champion, knowing damn well he lost to the GOAT Jon Bones Jones, is just sad. He clearly doesn't even believe it himself that he is the true champ. He honestly seems a little scared of the new Jon Jones 2.0 like maybe he is just ready to lose ", 
        "DC doesn't like Jones because when they met, Jones did not know who he was and jokingly said he could take him down; so essentially a young kid bruised his ego. Yes, the guy has had a tragic life. Does not mean I have to like him. He is the one who instigated everything against Jones. Even at this conference, interrupting Jon- then setting himself up to look like a fool. What about Weidman, he seems to not like DC at all either. In fact, it seems like a bunch of fighters do not like him. So fuck that noise about how people should not boo him because of the things he has overcome in his life- he still acts like a dick.", 
        "DC was boo'd because the crowd likes Jones. Nothing more too it. Yes Jones made a mistake and has paid for it. Like this sub, DC holds that mistake over his head which leaves a bad taste in everyone's mouth. ", 
        "We were all having a good time and you got to come with this shit...", 
        "DC deserves more respect", 
        "He hated jones and had problems with him before jones even went through that whole driving incident ", 
        "DC is a piece of trash. His daughter wasnt going to amount to anything. ", 
        "Big John described \"abusive language\" as racial epithets and things of that nature.  A \"fuck you\" here and there isn't a punishable offense ", 
        "Where does \"Cholo Cunt\" fit into that?", 
        "What is a cholo?", 
        "out of curiosity, where are you from to have not known of the word cholo?", 
        "Scotland. I guess some people might have heard it from movies but I don't watch movies often.", 
        "Spanish for dark skinned/mestizo in South America at least. I'm curious what the connotation is in the US...", 
        "I mostly hear it used to refer to Mexicans/Hispanics that wear raiders gear, flannels with one button up top done, bandanas. Kind of the stereotypical Mexican gangster looks", 
        "This made me turn on McGregor quick. Glad his ego got choked the fuck out of him, hopefully. ", 
        "Spanish for gangster. ", 
        "So how is it offensive?\n\nEdit: [source]( https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/3y407u/nate_diaz_damn_it_feels_good_to_be_a_gangsta/?sort=top)", 
        "Like saying someone's a hun, yeah it just means protestant but it's the way you mean it and the word you choose y'know?", 
        "Aw aye.", 
        "Being called a criminal isn't cool.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No. He's cool because he overcame his misfortune with hard work, not crime. And he is active in making his community a better place.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It's actually a Latin American with Indian blood; a mestizo. In the US, it's used derogatorily to describe a lower-class Mexican, especially in an urban area.", 
        "Indian as in native to the Americas or India?", 
        "The former.", 
        "I read somewhere that in Mexico there used to be dozens of names for people with varying degrees of Spanish ancestry.  ", 
        "Google \"quadroon\".", 
        "There's all kinds of fucked up racial shit in former colonies. Brazil particularly for that kind of extreme classification.", 
        "I'm not sure I've ever heard it used in that second context. Maybe it's just a regional thing but I've only ever heard used as Spanish for gangster or gang member.", 
        "TIL cheers! ", 
        "I suppose Nate could call Conor a mick or something along those lines to even it up? ", 
        "2 year suspension and 90k fine", 
        "Yeah, but if McGregor says something shitty it'll be fine.", 
        "2y 09k fine*", 
        "subtle, but still 209% there", 
        "Nate is going to get Nick in so much trouble.", 
        "Ah the ol' reddit Diaz-a-roo", 
        "Well I was ready to ask someone hold my guinness but there's no link. ", 
        "Yea...I'm using mobile. ", 
        "I love the honesty and lack of shame... \"Hey there's no link...\" \"yeah I'm on mobile\" ", 
        "It's not often I have the opportunity to be \"that guy\"....I saw my chance and I took it\n\n\nThat's what heroes do ", 
        "Anderson called Maia all kinds of that shit when they fought.", 
        "Straight up racism. I guess the ref didn't understand Portuguese. ", 
        "Aren't they both hispanic??", 
        "Maia is white and Anderson is black.\n\nEDIT: In Brazil, I mean. ", 
        "What did he say?", 
        "The only thing I remember is \"come on playboy, hit me in the face.\"\n\nPlayboy is a pretty heavy insult in Brazil.", 
        "...really? lol ", 
        "Why is it such an insult?", 
        "I guess it's like whore in the US. But for dudes. Maybe insinuating that you cheat on your girl is really insulting there?", 
        "Gotcha. Thanks ", 
        "http://www.fightersonlymag.com/content/news/12255-anderson-facing-backlash-from-brazilian-fans-for-maia-slurs-(updated)\n\n>Odd as it sounds, \u2018playboy\u2019 is a serious insult in Brazil when levelled at certain targets. The stark class and economic divides in Brazil make for a wide gulf in status between the rich and poor. In Brazilian terms, a playboy is a hedonist rich kid, the product of a pampered upbringing who cares little for the poor and knows nothing of real life. \n", 
        "Everything goes tonight. Even \"Fuck you, you potato eating leprechaun. You want me to count to ten? 2-0-9-10 motherfucker.\"", 
        "Something strangely symbolic about me coming across this post while it has 420 points.", 
        "Is that the stockton zip code?", 
        "It's actually the Silver Spring, MD zip code. Where I live. What it was meant to be, no fucking clue.", 
        "Area code. American phone numbers go like this. (Xxx)xxx-xxxx the first three of that in Stockton are 209", 
        "did this actually happen? if so is there a link?", 
        "No... It was just a joke. I would give anything if it did and there was a video. ", 
        "aw damn :( so would I, I would never stop watching it", 
        "i dont get it, but then i'm not american", 
        "Fuck, 2-0-9-10 slayed me. Fucking brilliant", 
        "\"Want me to count to 10? 2-0-9-10 motherfucker\" legit LOL thanks man. ", 
        "Whatever happens in this fight tonight we will all get some laughs in. The fans will definitely win. ", 
        "if it ends in the first I'm gonna be pissed", 
        "I'm hoping for at least three. ", 
        "I mean if we're hoping, then I'd hope for five. As for educated guesses, anyone wanna weigh in? I know far too little to make an educated guess.", 
        "Who knows on this one man. I would say if Conor is going to drop him it will be in the second or third. If that doesn't happen I could see Diaz getting it to the ground and submitting him in the 4th or 5th. If it goes to decision it will be a split either way. Diaz really has a better chance than most people think if he fights smart , but I wouldn't count on that. ", 
        "I can see Diaz wanting to prove a point on the feet and keep it standing for the first couple of rounds - if it goes that long - and then look to take it to the ground in the third.\n\nI suspect his corner will want him to do it sooner than that.", 
        "They should mic them up", 
        "How could they do that without either risking the mics getting destroyed, falling off, becoming a hazard, or injuring the fighter(s)? Maybe just a mic above the octagon that catches the sounds inside of it instead of a mic being on the fighters themselves.", 
        "Or just helmet cam the ref and add a Mic to it. ", 
        "That's how they'd catch the refs looking at the ring girls and not the fight", 
        "Should have judge cams as well, make sure they're paying attention. ", 
        "Cecil People's cam would just be one continuous image of an error-filled crossword puzzle ", 
        "Lol, even his cross word is wrong", 
        "Boom mics were invented for this reason.", 
        "Yeah that would definitely work as well", 
        "Andrizzleton answered \"Just overhead shotgun mic the octagon\". He is correct. It is a type of microphone that captures audio widely.", 
        "Yeah I saw that and it would be a damn good idea. It would be really fun to hear what the fighters are saying in the octagon, especially on PPV where it doesn't have to be censored.", 
        "Just get those [parabolic microphones the NFL uses](https://www.google.com/search?q=sideline+microphone+dish&hl=en&biw=1366&bih=669&site=webhp&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjHx6PZ_6rLAhWHkYMKHdRCCt0Q_AUICCgC#hl=en&tbm=isch&q=parabolic+microphone)", 
        "Yeah I am surprised that the UFC doesn't have these already. I really think that the UFC doesn't want to get the fighters live audio because it'll either all be censored or it'll be dead silent. The fighters are either cursing and talking shit like Conor/Nate or they're just silently working on their craft.", 
        "Mic the ref?", 
        "Don't they always?", 
        "That could work as well", 
        "Some organization has their refs wearing a gopro... sounds p cool", 
        "I thought I saw a cut man wearing a head cam tonight", 
        "Pride had a ref cam as well as a mic on the ref.  Just another fact to show how pride was far more innovative than the ufc.   I mean pride hid steroid use by fighters before it was cool. ", 
        "they didn't hide shit they just didn't give a fuck", 
        "which is how it should be. Everybody uses PEDs, who gives a fuck? I don't even watch UFC but damn I saw the promo and I love that Nate Diaz guy for flat out saying \"everybody in UFC is on steroids.\" More athletes need to just start being honest about it so the public stops being so sheepish and weird about it", 
        "I remember Nick saying this, did Nate as well? Wouldn't exactly be surprising just curious.", 
        "someone said it to Conor, sorry I don't know my fighters :/. I just really admired it because I know PED use is rampant in all pro sports and don't care, and I always have wanted the athletes to just admit it and be like \"everybody's using, who gives a fuck\" and he basically said that. People need to stop being so butthurt about steroids ", 
        "Boom, there's the best solution and answer to this. ", 
        "A boom mic? Ok", 
        "There would be a lot of unpleasant sounds getting  captured", 
        "UFC UNCUT", 
        "isnt that what we pay for?", 
        "It would just be stomping and sliding feet. ", 
        "\"Did he say something, Joe?\"\n\n\"No, Mike, that's the sound of his skull shattering.\"\n\n\"Sounds a little like eating CORN NUTS... the official snack of the UFC.\"", 
        "lol", 
        "lol", 
        "Corn to the core", 
        "What the hell are Corn Nuts anyway!?", 
        "They're disgusting tasting nuts.", 
        "Just toasted and seasoned corn. It's actually a stellar snack while boozing.", 
        "The official snack of the UFC.", 
        "A treat designed by dentists to ensure maximum tooth damage. ", 
        "\"treat\"", 
        "Dried kernels of corn covered in a lot of salt and spices. The are pretty good, but make you thirsty. I have seen bars that offer them for free because they make people want to drink so much more beer.", 
        "They're nuts harvested from corn trees and then covered in 11 secret herbs and spices.", 
        "11 herbs and deans", 
        "Eat a corn nut and BUST A NUT!", 
        "more like bust a tooth\n", 
        "Go to your room and shut the door. ", 
        "That notion was brought up the other day, and I think the brightest idea of the discussion was something about Joe following the fighters during rounds with his hand mic.", 
        "\"Fuck you motherfucker!\"\n\nConor to Herb: \"What did he say to me?\"\n\n\"He said Fuck you motherfucker\"\n\n", 
        "*Dillashaw on a Plane* is a great movie.", 
        "Just overhead shotgun mic the octagon.", 
        "I believe Strikeforce did this.", 
        "Iirc the ufc also has mics above the ring, but they probably have them on a very low volume/gain. You can just barely see it sometimes..\n\nThen again my memory .might be from strikeforce and I might be completely out to lunch...", 
        "They have mics in the octagon which are used to mix in the sound of the ring while the on camera mics are the main audio being heard. Long shots and shots of the crowd will have the overhead mics as the main source", 
        "*Conor lands a left*\n\n\"OH HE'S ROCKED!\"\n\n\"I ain't rocked, homie!\"", 
        "> \"I ain't [fucking] rocked, homie!\"\n\nFTFY", 
        "He ain't a hitter, or whatever...", 
        "Silent and with his weigh ins face just in view of the camera", 
        "So what do we so now? Kickstarter? Because I need this.", 
        "Can you imagine if after one amazing round a ref stopped a fight saying \"he said the F word, we're done!\"\n\nlol", 
        "lol", 
        "> Can you imagine if after one amazing round a ref stopped a fight saying \"he said the F word, we're done!\"\n\nMazzagatti actually warned Diaz to not watch his mouth when he fought Robbie.\n\n", 
        "\"I warned you once. That's a point you just lost.\"", 
        "[*Fuck it, take two more.*](http://i.imgur.com/wMLlrAG.jpg)", 
        "Honestly, for Diaz. I doubt he wants a decision. He wants to knock Conor the fuck out - likewise with Conor. They want to knock each other the fuck out and talk shit in the ring. I cannot wait. ", 
        "That might not be too far off, excerpt from the article\n>One time that crossed a line with me was I refereed a fight, and the guy had a guy in a position to ground and pound, and like the whole time, he was saying, \u2018Show me your face, bitch. Yeah, bitch. You like that? Don\u2019t you hide from me,'\u201d Dean said. \u201cAnd it was abusive. It made me feel uncomfortable. It was like a weapon. I felt like, man, this guy is going to need therapy after this.", 
        "> \u201cAnd it was abusive. It made me feel uncomfortable. It was like a weapon. I felt like, man, this guy is going to need therapy after this.\n\nHaha, that's so funny, the way Dean phrased it, not the actual therapy inducing abuse.", 
        "Actually, Steve Mazzagatti warned Nick Diaz for taking shit to Robbie in their fight. Then Joe Rogan said \"I didn't know that was a rule.\" Lmao", 
        "Did he bring it up five minutes after it happened?", 
        "thats because Mazzagatti said no talking, not no foul language. I doubt Mazzagatti even knew the rule. ", 
        "Of course Mazzagatti would be the one to bring up this dumbass rule ", 
        "According to the Unified Rules, that would be a legitimate call if the ref determines the fighter receiving the insult is too hurt to continue.\n\nNot even kidding.", 
        "So if the fighter has really soft feelings and gets butthurt he could win the fight on a ref stoppage?\n\nI wonder who could fit that description, if anyone...", 
        "I know it's been around for years but the phrase butthurt makes me laugh every time, it's such a hilarious term, I'm laughing my head off here", 
        "Sage Northcutt", 
        "Robots don't have emotions.", 
        "DC would retire champ. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "I've had two friends pass away from being struck by a semi at 10 and was involved in a fatal accident myself with my two best friends at 16. Stop being a fucking prick. Bad shit happens to everyone. Just because DC is famous doesn't mean that it's worse for him. ", 
        "> I've had two friends pass away from being struck by a semi at 10 and was involved in a fatal accident myself with my two best friends at 16.\n\nBoo hoo stop being so butthurt about it. \n\nNo, prick 3 of your family members being killed and your father being murdered doesn't happen to everyone, it happens to almost no one, hence the sensitivity. \n\nTo think someone should be able to function like a normal person after that is borderline autistic. It's like saying to a war vet 'why do you have PTSD pussy people have been though worse'.", 
        "The only reason I even mentioned it was because your insinuation that I would kill myself if I had people around me die. I gave you two of the examples of where it has happened. Now, you accuse me of being butt hurt lol. Some people are sensitive and some aren't. DC is an emotional person and that's the bottom line. That's literally the whole reason for the first comment. Trying to be his white knight doesn't change that fact.", 
        "Considering how many members of his family have been killed he has every right to be sensitive. I doubt you'd be alive it you went through half of what DC has.\n", 
        "I can imagine Diaz doing it and getting warned but not giving a fuck and just keeps doing it until he loses like 3 or 4 points.", 
        "Conor says FOOK a lot too. In fact, I'll bet I've heard more Fucks in interviews and such from Conor than I have Nate. ", 
        "Diaz, you've tested positive for Motherfucker", 
        "https://youtu.be/bTeYncx1xmI?t=1m15s", 
        "lol wins all 5 rounds, but loses the decision for f-bombs. \n\n", 
        "lol", 
        "I don't even think that's an exxageration I think with the Diaz bros that's a legit chance of happening if the rules were like that lol ", 
        "lol", 
        "YES!\n\nFucking hat trick in this thread!", 
        "You ruined it now...", 
        "Why?", 
        "should have rolled with it instead of trying to boast", 
        "Why?", 
        "Name checks out.  ", 
        "Good to hear, Holly Holm deserves to be given a little slack.", 
        "I dont know man, you can get an unfair advantage with it. What if she hurts Miesha's feelings, and she wont be able to continue.", 
        "Such a childish rule, we can fuck each other up but not talk shit to each other while doing it... Herb knows what's up.", 
        "I'm going to guess it comes from when there wasn't a tape delay in the live broadcasts (so pre justin timberlake superbowl) so that they didn't have to worry about a hot mic catching a fighter cursing and then UFC either receiving an FCC fine, or not being allowed to broadcast live.", 
        "Tape delays in live broadcast have been around since the 70s.....", 
        "Oh well I am mistaken then. I just remember them becoming more prominent and maybe longer (could be wrong) after that super bowl halftime show where Timberlake pulled Janet Jackson's shirt down.", 
        "I'm so confused you have 2 different flairs on separate comments. I think you broke reddit.", 
        "Lol who knows what happens. I prayed to Dada5000 that my flair would change and now it did.", 
        "Lol", 
        "Your parent comment had \"team I don't give a fuck\" now they all have the romanian flag. I think reddit is fucking with me o_0", 
        "It's just for trying to make it more family friendly", 
        "Thats gay", 
        "It's a family show, keep it clean.", 
        "Not sure if you're serious but family friendly? There are 2 dudes beating the fuck out of each other in there lol.", 
        "lol", 
        "I didn't say it made sense. Same reason they have to walkout to edited songs and bleep cursing on fox or FS1 cards.", 
        "It's on PPV though.", 
        "Is bt sports 2 considered PPV in the UK?", 
        "No, not really. All contact sports, including the ones that are not televised, have this rule. It's about respecting you opponent.", 
        "A novel concept to people who love eating up any disrespect done on the grounds that it's \"promo man\". ", 
        "It's like speed limits. You can go 5 over and be fine, but we still need the rule in case someone is going 60 in a school zone. Imagine some white fighter yelling \"Take that, nigger!\" Every time they land a punch. It's a good rule to have, refs just need to use discretion in enforcement the same as cops do with speed limits. ", 
        "Basically. Ideally I don't want any fight to be stopped but if the rule being there deters some of the more insane bullshit that can cause a massive problem later on (imagine the scraps and disrepute it can bring).", 
        "Bellator should put on a black lives matter vs KKK fight.", 
        "Trump vs Royce Gracie: both try their best to cheat all the way to a win", 
        "I would watch Royce knee Trump in the nuts than crank his arm", 
        "To be fair, isn't the only notable example of a ref enforcing the rule when Mazzagatti warned Nick Diaz during the Robbie Lawler fight?", 
        "Mazzagatti gets a bad rap, but by the ridiculous rules MMA uses, he was being lenient. The rules dictate that he stops the action to issue a warning, make sure Robbie isn't too hurt (emotionally I guess), and eventually deduct a point.", 
        "After I saw him not give a foul to Kevin \"Pokey\" Burns, I can't stand him.", 
        "Oh course it's mazzagatti", 
        "And Reza Madadi against Cristiano Marcello. Don't remember the ref. ", 
        "Yeah they don't enforce it but as a rule itself it's pretty dumb.", 
        "I'm sure Mazzagatti holds several records for fucking up as a ref.", 
        "Kim Winslow is going to give him a hell of a run for his money over time", 
        "We keep talking about these two refs but I honestly can't remember the last time I've seen either one.", 
        "Haven't seen Kim since the cosplay photos dropped.", 
        ".....elaborate please", 
        "Some photos of Kim Winslow at Renaissance fairs and dressing up like Disney princesses was put on the Internet and I haven't seen her ref a fight since. Pretty easy to find them just some simple Google-fu will get you there.", 
        "http://m.imgur.com/a/CkTVw", 
        "Wow, she went for just about every female Disney character ever. ", 
        "Oh Kim Winslow, no!", 
        "The title said the pics gave him a hard-on. https://youtu.be/seVdI6FGjk0", 
        "That was terrifying ", 
        "I'm now completely horrified ", 
        "I think Nate got warned in the fight against Johnson", 
        "I thought that was more about the open hand in case of eye pokes wasn't it?", 
        "Yeah Nate got warned like 3 times that is why he resorted to finger pointing and laughing at Johnson because he wasn't allowed to trashtalk. Because the ref was enforcing this rule. I am glad Herb Dean will not be enforcing it.", 
        "The finger pointing and laughter was HILARIOUS though.  ", 
        "That made the fight ... Was one of those awesome \"only in MMA\" kind of sport moments", 
        "Agreed, a Diaz is always gonna find a way to talk shit to you even if they aren't allowed to talk shit to you. So the ref may as well let them talk shit. :)", 
        "The times I've seen this enforced were largely due to a fighter talking too much and fighting too little. Generally haven't seen it used for \"hey stop saying mean things\" moments.", 
        "Watch Diaz-Lawler if you haven't seen it, even if you have watch it again anyways! UFC 47", 
        "Yeah the trash talking was at an all time high that night", 
        "\"No talking!\"", 
        "Referee Herb Dean has called a stop to the contest at three seconds of the very first round. The winner, by 'fuck you, bitch.', NAAATE DIIIIIIAAAAZ!!!", 
        "Finally we can hear Holm Vs. Tate without censorship. ", 
        "That video player is fucking cancer.", 
        "Did they date first?", 
        "Laggy as fuck and is autoplay. Terrible.", 
        "I don't really understand this, ref's can't just choose at their own convenience which rules to enforce and which not to, or maybe they can since nothing ever happens to eye pokes.", 
        "He's gonna be like \"Bumbaclot!\" ", 
        "malakas", 
        "I work at a Greek restaurant! I get this! ", 
        "\u201cOne time that crossed a line with me was I refereed a fight, and the guy had a guy in a position to ground and pound, and like the whole time, he was saying, \u2018Show me your face, bitch. Yeah, bitch. You like that? Don\u2019t you hide from me,'\u201d Dean said. \u201cAnd it was abusive. It made me feel uncomfortable. It was like a weapon. I felt like, man, this guy is going to need therapy after this. And I forgot about the rule. I didn\u2019t really enforce the rule. But if I think if I were to do it again, I would I\u2019ve enforced that. I wouldn\u2019t have let him talk to him like that.\u201d\n\nHuh, interesting. Wonder who that was...", 
        "I don't see anything wrong with this for the fighters. Not the best thing you want the audience to hear but they're not mic'd. the guy getting pounded is too focused on his defense to put together what the guy on top of him is saying", 
        "Powerful herb dean", 
        "Sportsmanship: Have some.", 
        "I'm glad Herb made this choice. I remember that bum Steve Mazagati telling Nick Diaz to stop talking when he reffed his fight.", 
        "I would love to hear a \"STOCKTON MOTHERFUCKER!\" followed by a McGregor \"hehe fookin Dublin yeh\"", 
        "I like it and get it, but c'mon we can't have refs just deciding what rules they want to go by. What if some ref is like, hey I won't be enforcing the eye poke rule because these guys are in there having a simulation death match.", 
        "eye pokes are against the rules?! all this time i thought Jones was legit", 
        "Just ask DC", 
        "or meathead", 
        "Anyone know what fight Herb was talking about at the end there?", 
        "I think he said it was for regional fight? It could just be a small local show. It might even be amateur. That doesn't rule out that someone wouldn't know what it was, but it would make it harder to track down. ", 
        "They aint Mic'd up, let the f bombs go.  This is no kiddie shit.  ", 
        "If I was in the cage with either one of these guys I'm sure I'd tap from the abusive language.", 
        "If you can see eye gouges with impunity, who gives a fuck about language?", 
        "Do they take points away for foul language ? \u201dHeading into the second round, both fighters are at -10 points !\u201d", 
        "I'm not surprised mother fucker", 
        "Just when I thought I couldn't like Herb even more.", 
        "God damn I fucking love Herb Dean", 
        "I think this has more to do with the TV broadcasts rather than hurting the feelings of your opponent.", 
        "No its called sportsmanship.", 
        "All contact sports (all sports really) have that rule, it's not about TV broadcasts.", 
        "Has anyone heard a fighter drop a racial slur in the cage? \n\nJust seems like something no one would ever do.", 
        "Thats why Paul Daley went after Koscheck after the fight.\n\nHe was calling him the N-word.", 
        "Damn I had no idea. That's messed up.", 
        "Isn't Koscheck black? Was the word with an \"a\" or an \"er\"?", 
        "source ?", 
        "What about a punch to the middle finger?", 
        "Mic'd up like the NFL ", 
        "Great, this could have been REALLY BAD imagine a clow ref stepping in there stopping the fight possibly handing out a DQ or something. What a fucking disaster lol!", 
        "lol!", 
        "Ok that's nice but has a ref ever enforced it though?", 
        "Mazzagati did basically that.", 
        "What fight?", 
        "I want to say it was a Diaz fight. I'll try to find it in a minute. Basically Mazzagatti told i believe Nick Diaz to stop talking as he was shit talking during the fight.", 
        "Diaz Lawler", 
        "Ref:  \"No talking!\"\n\nJoe:  \"Really?  I didn't know that was a thing.\"", 
        "There's an abusive language foul in cage fighting? lol", 
        "lol", 
        "Whats it matter, two things could happen tonight... either Conner is going to knock Nate spark out in the first minute, or Nate is going to take him down and submit him, either way there will be no time for shit talking.", 
        "I don't think this has ever been strongly enforced anyway. There has been a couple occasions where I have seen refs tell fighters to stop it if they are doing it excessively but they just keep doing it regardless.", 
        "Herb Dean, keepin it real", 
        "I wish more industries used that logic. We need more Fucks in just about everything quite frankly if we're already dealing with themes of violence. Pixar, Disney, and Nickelodeon can do without it, but that's about it. ", 
        "100% agree. They should be able to swear as much as they want. Although I guess you'd have to draw the line at racism, or something like that.", 
        "I've always wondered about this rule and why ive never seen either of the Diaz brothers get done for it.", 
        "Well in a 5 round fight where \n\nround 1 is fighting\n\nround 2-4 are trash talking\n\nround 5 is fighting\n\nWhat is he meant to do", 
        "At this point a Diaz saying \"good luck bro\" is psychologically abusive language tbh", 
        "BOOOOORN IN THE USSSAAAA!!!!", 
        "Thank you Herb!", 
        "Man, I hope Herb never retires. He is the greatest ref ever. Sure the Weidman - Rockhold fight was very questionable, but he is the best ref in the game and he actually fought himself back in the day. Hopefully the athletic commissions will have him train other refs in the future.", 
        "He trains other refs now. ", 
        "Herb has been lack on the rules for a while now, like stopping a fight when somebody is getting murdered", 
        "I don't agree with this swearing is ok sentiment at all. You'd get fined for it in the nfl. It's stuff like this that keeps mma at that level below the nfl. It only helps naysayers to fuel their arguments of barbarism.", 
        "You wouldn't get fined for it in the NFL. If you pay enough attention to the broadcasts you'll catch the occasional swear word from the sideline, and they don't care at all. Hell, they'll almost always show replays of coaches cussing up a storm on the sideline because its hilarious, even if they don't play the audio. \n\nAs long as guys aren't throwing racial and homophobic slurs around, it really isn't a big deal. ", 
        "That's different because there's only two guys in the cage. It's the equivalent of mic'ing all the starting players on the field, and if they did that, they wouldn't allow swearing. The nfl wants a clean image and if there was prominent swearing aside from a slip accidentally caught by a sideline ambience mic they'd do something about it.", 
        "Isn't it stupid that mma junkie replaced fuck with *expletive*", 
        "FUCK YEAH", 
        "I don't want any athletes censored in any sport no matter what.\nIf they are doing it, and I'm willfully watching, they can say whatever the hell they want to say.\n\nI have a choice as a viewer.. if i don't like it, I'll turn it off, not be selfish enough to ask them to change for me. ", 
        "Op is a bitch", 
        "this is why mazagatti will always be the best. he sticks to the rules and never wavers ", 
        "I picked up the /s for you.  You left it on the floor", 
        "thanks. i guess it was needed", 
        "It's a dumb rule, but I don't think it's good for referees to be selective about which rules to enforce. I would have thought that this stance would earn Herb a telling off from the commission.", 
        "It is up to the referee's discretion how to interpret abusive language, there is a difference between a few casual fuck yous and a litany of racial epithets.", 
        "Yes, but he didn't say a few casual fuck yous wouldn't constitute an offence, he said he's *not enforcing that foul*.\n\nIt's not like saying that accidental eyepokes can sometimes happen and he has to be measured, it's like announcing that he isn't going to enforce the rules against eyepokes.\n\nAside from being a different rule, there's no difference between that and what Herb has done.\n\nedit: That's actually not what Herb has done, he was far more sensible; this is a shitty headline.", 
        "Thank God. One of the most stupid rules in the sport. Entertainment is a crucial aspect of MMA. Why would you kill a part of the entertainment value?", 
        "Because when it becomes the focus, then it becomes a problem. This is a preventative measure is all.", 
        "> If somebody \u2026 says \u2018(expletive) you\u2019 to somebody, people will get offended by it. I mean, we\u2019re watching people kick each other in the face, but we can\u2019t say \u2018(expletive) you\u2019 every now and then?\u201d\n\nI imagine that saying \"open brackets, expletive, close brackets, you\" would be quite the mouthful when you're trying to kick a guy in the face.", 
        "Those are parentheses you pedantic whore. This is a bracket: [", 
        "That's a square bracket. And this is a full stop.", 
        "[and this is a rabbit](http://imgur.com/r/Rabbits/lP5LY6J)", 
        "Stay classy MMA", 
        "Dont know if this is an actual dig at the sport, but hey lets just let rapists and women beaters compete in the nfl its cooool", 
        "I just think mma could do better. You don't need to condone this sort of stuff which Herb basically is with his comments. \n\nAlso all the expletive ridden face to face interviews between Diaz and McGregor, it's a cheap way to hype the fight and doesn't do much for the overall image of the sport. \n\nI personally don't give a shit, but think it will pigeon hole mmas growth to more of the \"just bleed\" fans. \n\nPut it this way mma fighters always talk about being true martial artists, this sorta stuff doesn't seem to be in that same spirit. ", 
        "> I personally don't give a shit, but think it will pigeon hole mmas growth to more of the \"just bleed\" fans\n\nIt is a sport of fighting... we already like our bloody messes.  You're talking about fights, not a sport with a ball or even NASCAR.  The entire point is to beat up your opponent.  And the more flashy it is, the better, it what MMA fans like.  We all like a solid finish (hurting the ever loving piss out of someone) over a tactical decision.  It's a fight, not a game.", 
        "This is the most perfect example of a fighter doing what needs to be done in the last round to win.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What in the fuck...", 
        "Bad corners pump you full of sunshine (Ronda's being a great example, though not in terms of score, but telling her that she could box and her strategy was working), while good corners tell you it straight, and Miesha mentioned that her corner told her she was down or tied and needed to end the match in the round.", 
        "It's happened that a corner will tell you you're down and need a finish. ", 
        "I see it happens quite often in MMA. A lot of the time fighters will win or die trying in that last round and I have a lot of respect for that and point it out everytime.\n\nIn other sports? I get mad most of the time at fighters going out there to lose gracefuly on their feet without putting it all on the line.", 
        "Yeah, Miesha was saying in the interview that she knew she had to finish it. Round 2 was *possibly* 10-8, so even if she out-pointed that last round she'd still possibly lose or go to a draw. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It seems to be the prevailing wisdom of online recappers -- Breen and the Sherdog 'judges' as well as Meltzer at WO -- and I believe Tate's corner brought it up too.", 
        "All 3 judges had it 10-8 http://i.imgur.com/i77jaZM.png", 
        "Wow, to think that if Holm was able to fend off the choke like in round 2, we would have had a very good chance of a draw.", 
        "Only if holm lost rd 5", 
        "I have to laugh. I likened this fight to the Julie Kedzie fight, and said that Holm was going to dominate her on the feet, but wouldn't fall for a final round submission.\n\nHave to admire Tate's tenacity. She didn't have much to offer aside from the second round, but she made it enough when it counted.", 
        "Brian Stann and Frankie Edgar both picked Tate to win in this fashion.  ", 
        "Idd. Going into the 5th I thought Tate was repeating Anderson Silvas mistake from last week. But she was just patient as hell.", 
        "Instead she Did what Anderson did against Chael the first time. The right thing.", 
        "Silva covers whole spectrum\n", 
        "I love Anderson. But sometimes it feels like he doesn't care about/understand the point system. While it may be entertaining, dropping your guard and eating/dodging punches won't win points :) ", 
        "He's a weird combination of iron jaw and great counter puncher where he lures you in by letting you hit him and then counters and knocks you flat. I wish I could find it but there is a Fight from before UFC where he lets this guy hit him as hard as he can and does nothing and then he knocks the guy out.", 
        "yeah I know, Joe Rogan spoke about that on his podcast not too long ago. It's from one of his earlier fights. As I said, it is highly entertaining (which, imo, is important for any sport) but when all is said and done it can cost him fights. It did just that in Silva vs. Weidman 1 and now against Bisping. I wish he had 10 % less showmanship and 10 % more killer instinct.", 
        "is normal", 
        "Definitely! https://i.imgur.com/rgIfoVU.png", 
        "Schevchenko needs to take note of this", 
        "Robbie Lawler takes great offense to this.", 
        "5th round Lawler is truly a beast but has he ever been losing and need the finish like this? If this goes to decision odds are Tate loses. ", 
        "He was losing to MacDonald 39-37 going into round five and finished him", 
        "Ah that's right!", 
        "What a fucking fight", 
        "Broke my fucking heart, but yes an incredible fight", 
        "Tate went full Lawler mode. except it was wrestling and jiu jitsu instead of a vile barrage of punches and kicks.", 
        "Damn this is like rock paper scissors.\n\nRonda's judo beats Miesha's wrestling\n\nMiesha's wrestling beats Holly's boxing\n\nHolly's boxing beats Ronda's judo. ", 
        "I bet on Tate because I thought grappling would defeat Holm, buy Ronda's stand up wasn't good enough to get past Holm.  Meisha had enough stand up to stay alive long enough to get the takedown.\n\nOne dimensional fighters like Rousey or Holm won't make it. I hope they both work on their game and come back. Sad to see Holm lose, but I'm enjoying the $200 I won on last night's foghts.", 
        "Ronda showed up out of shape, untrained and didn't even bother to make a game plan. She was so cocky that she thought she could go all Hollywood, not prepare for the fight, and still beat the other girls. She was wrong. ", 
        "That's why I've been saying Miesha would beat Holly and go on to rematch Ronda at UFC 200 (Dana said Ronda's not coming back til Oct/Nov but also said that \"she's back in the gym, I don't know what that means\" so... I wouldn't be surprised if it ends up going down, UFC 200 will be HUGE, Conor will prolly defend FW title against Edgar, Ronda will prolly do a trilogy match w/ Miesha. Ronda will beat her and then rematch Holly at the year-end show and Holly will retire Ronda once and for all.", 
        "Except that Holly stuffed most of Miesha's takedowns so it's not good to say that Miesha always dominates Holly.  \n  \nIf we repeat this fight 10 times, Holly would win most of them. I'm not discrediting Miesha, I'm just saying that based on how many stuffed takedowns Holly made.", 
        "Nah, you can't say that. Tate fought very energy efficient. Waited for her opportunity and took her down twice. In the first takedown she came very close to what she finished in the last.\nWhen you add all this up, I'd say Tate has just found the weak spot in Holms game and she had the ability to execute her gameplan with awesome technique.", 
        "I agree with you, several of her shoots just looked miserably forced. I kept expecting her to get kicked in the head over it.", 
        "Cain's shots looked miserably forced at times in the JDS rematch too, but persistence pays off sometimes.", 
        "Well, Miesha took Holly down twice, and came close to finishing the fight in one, and did finish the fight the second time. That's a really, really high effectiveness for her opportunities. I'm not sure Holly wins \"most of them\" over ten fights, because I'm not sure Tate only gets her down twice in five rounds again. But, even so, she's showed that she only has to take her down once to overwhelm her there.", 
        "Yea that's true, although you can also argue that the each individual round can represent a fight in itself, and that Holly wins most of them in that sense.  \n  \nYes I know that's not really a good way to go on about it since each subsequent round starts off different and that cardio and damage from the previous rounds may affect the round itself, but they were both pretty fresh the whole 5 rounds imo.  \n  \nBut yeah Miesha showed that she's a threat on the ground, a big one against Holly.", 
        "i don't think ronda wins the rematch with tate. I think she has a better chance against holly actually. \n\nTate was too emotional in the 2nd ronda fight and she has improved a lot since then ", 
        "Like that time with rashad-rampage-machida", 
        "Miesha used Wrestling, its SUPER EFFECTIVE!", 
        "Hollys boxing beats Rondas boxing*\n\n", 
        "Like they always say, styles make fights!", 
        "Imagine if Miesha beats Ronda by armbar.", 
        "Ronda* bro", 
        "gotcha. thanks.", 
        "If Ronda's camp had put together a real game plan, and convinced her not to out box a boxer the outcome could've been much different.  Miesha went after Holly's weak ground game and not surprisingly she won. ", 
        ">If Ronda's camp had put together a real game plan, and convinced her not to out box a boxer the outcome could've been much different.  \n\nOh my god this shit simply won't die. Ronda wasn't trying to box. She just couldn't get it to the ground. ", 
        "Ronda has always had that aggressive style where she runs in like a bull. Tate was calm and didn't go in without thinking.", 
        "> Ronda has always had that aggressive style where she runs in like a bull.\n\nWhich you can get away with when you're an Olympic judoka fighting someone with predominantly bjj or wrestling in their background. They won't take advantage of your openings for fear that it will end them.\n\nAgainst a skilled boxer you'll probably have to pull out some advanced tactics like waiting for an opening, moving in any direction but forward, or maybe just moving your head once in a while.\n\nHopefully she comes back better for it, but Ronda needed to be dethroned to advance the sport. Her stand up game has been using her Judo as a crutch for *way* too long.", 
        "It's like Chuck Wanderlei Rampage. ", 
        "Except that Page had the last word on both of them", 
        "Its like they always say, styles make fights. There isnt anybody who is a master at everything in female MMA so its gonna go like this. i'm not convinced Ronda can beat Miesha so easily now though, she seems to have improved a lot while Ronda has gone off the deep end.", 
        "> Holly's boxing beats Rhonda's judo.\n\nNot sure we saw that in their fight. But this is certain:\n\n*Holly's boxing REALLY beats Rhonda's boxing.*", 
        "No, Ronda tried to take her down a bunch of times and got hella close to catching an armbar.  Holly was able to defend all of it.", 
        "Holly's boxing beats Ronda's judo because Holly won't let Ronda get in range to clinch. Ronda made (by my count) nine attempts to tie up with Holly (documented here with time stamps: https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/3xwegz/official_wednesdays_general_discussion_thread/cy8tb96), but Holly was able to control the distance with boxing well enough to prevent Ronda from clinching effectively.", 
        "Agreed, Holm's takedown defense was incredible with Ronda and it is well documented. Someone posted a video breakdown of it on this sub that blew my mind. \n\nHonestly though, Tate totally exposed a weak ground game tonight. Pretty sure Ronda could do the same thing. ", 
        "Tate did expose her on the ground, but she also almost ran out of time.\n\nHolly still had great tdd. Just got had twice, and one of them ended up being crucial.", 
        "I definitely agree Ronda can do the same if she gets it to the ground. But that's a big if. Tate's wrestling skills and patience are more suited to getting to the ground. Ronda needs to expand her take down techniques beyond just using Judo to have a better chance of getting it to the ground.", 
        "This has made the division very exciting IMO. \n\nLook, I support Ronda and I know that doesn't really fly here. But after watching this fight, I just wanted to say that I really wish she had a better coach. It's her fault because the choice is hers and she's choosing not to leave, but I really wish she would choose someone else. Holly was the perfect match-up to make her look silly but after tonight I'm 100% sure if Ronda had a better game plan she would have won that night and still be undefeated. It's ridiculous that you have the world's most dominant wrestler in WMMA and she has only judo throws in her arsenal, no single legs or double legs. All Holly had to do, as was explained by Jack Slack in the past, was jam her forearm between herself and Ronda in the clinch and push off. Holly had the strength to pull this off.\n\nMuch respect to Miesha, it's been a long time coming. Much respect to Holly, still the division's most dangerous striker and dethroner of the queen. Ronda - this may not go down how you or I want it to, but the choice was/is yours and you could still be undefeated today.", 
        "Not even only judo throws, but overrelies on the hip throw specifically. It was painfully obvious and Holly could make moves to defend it every time because it was the only one that happened. She'd either create space or drop so Ronda's hips didn't get lower than hers. I know Ronda's an olympic level judoka so she certainly knows more judo moves. Judos all about taking what the opponent's balance/reaction gives you, not muscling your way into a throw.", 
        "Most judo olympians have two or three world class techniques that they specialise in. Ronda used to do a sode tsuri komi goshi alongside her harai goshi and ko uchi gari that we've seen, but that needs a sleeve to hold on to, as the name suggests. ", 
        "I think Ronda's hubris is 1-0 against Ronda. If she hadn't tried to beat everyone at their own game she probably could have beaten Holly by not trying to stand and box her.", 
        "Yeah, until the circle gets closed, then what?", 
        "Ronda fans still playing the \"what if\" game. Damn. ", 
        "One whole title fight later. ", 
        "There was a clip from Jimmy Fallon where Ronda predicted how Holly might beat her, so I am not sure I'm going to buy your take on this. They clearly talked it over. But I like Ronda as well, on a side note.", 
        "That clip was about Holly's headkick... the headkick is what finished her off, but certainly wasn't the actual problem of the fight, more of a symptom. It was the finishing move, but not what got the fight there in the first place.", 
        "Point taken.", 
        "I don't really agree with arguments like this, sure she could've won but she didnt. We could go on forever on how many ifs and buts would've changed things, if Ronda won people could've argued what Holly could've done.\n\nBut that's pointless, a huge strength is knowing how to approach your opponent and planning how to fight them. Ronda lost in this aspect and got punished for it.", 
        "Saying a fighter doing something different would have changed the outcome is stupid. Here is something a fighter could have done to change the outcome.", 
        "Holly's jiu jitsu is clearly as garbage as Ronda's boxing. Fight starts standing so it was an arms race Holly could win. ", 
        "Your username makes that comment a little funny.", 
        "That - and once people with a unique style have been deciphered once it changes things a lot, because the flaws become far more obvious to everyone. Machida was once thought of as seemingly unbeatable, too. \n\nRonda could very well run into trouble with Miesha in a third fight as well. Miesha certainly has the skillset to make it difficult given the right gameplan.", 
        "> the world's most dominant wrestler in WMMA\n\nIs this a typo? Ronda is not a wrestler in any sense of the word.", 
        "Just replace it with grappler and it makes sense. ", 
        "> Just replace it with grappler and it makes sense. \n\nThe general approach of a wrestler and a judoka is very different though, so \"grappler\" especially in this context is just an umbrella term that's not very helpful in understanding what's going on at all.\n\nAs the use of \"wrestler\" in the context of Ronda demonstrates so well.\n", 
        "From what I understand, Ronda's knees are completely shot. She can't do those wrestling shoots because of the toll it takes on her knees. Just not an element of her game she can grind in practice. Ronda has alluded to this in the past, and I think Schaub has out-right said it on his podcast at one point.\n\nMost concerning to me, though, is that Ronda has said herself that she basically stopped weight training when she started MMA. And, if you look at her early fights to the later ones, you can clearly see the difference in her explosive athleticism and fight-day physique. I suspect with all the extra-curricular activities in her life she hasn't trained as hard as she should have been.", 
        "Edmond & Ronda talked about that a while back on Joe Rogan podcast. I found their discussion on the facts you mention very strange - it seemed to me that they are stuck in a type of tunnel vision where some opinions Ronda has can not be questioned, which will play to /u/failbears view. But then again I presume there is trainer/athlete private relationship and a media outward strategy.", 
        ">  if Ronda had a better game plan she would have won that night\n\nRonda just needed to be more patient. Miesha was doing fairly well with the stand-up (probably getting outpointed most rounds, but avoiding a lot of damage) by simply not rushing in like Ronda did. ", 
        "But the entry for judo is a lot more upright than wrestling takedowns and requires hip penetration, which realistically can only be done by pressing your opponent up against the cage or stunning them with punches.  Plus, Meishas's wrestling and ground-game is just a lot more diverse than Ronda's.  Meisha can hit you with a lot of different things, while Ronda's pretty much always going for the armbar.", 
        "It's not a matter of simply not rushing.  It's all about head movement.\n\nMiesha got her first takedown because she *slipped a punch*.  Her final takedown was because she nearly slipped a punch and absorbed most of the blow with backwards movement, causing Holm to over-extend.\n\nRonda kept getting punched in the face while she tried to move forward for the takedown.  It's not about patience, it's about the fact she can't move her head enough to not get punched in the face.", 
        "To be fair, a majority of judo throws simply don't capitalize on slipping punches, and Ronda's bum knees may prevent her from shooting in.  The only judo attack that I can think of is a knee tap, but that relies on having cross-body angle, which may not be possible with the way Holly attacks come.", 
        "Judo attacks work just fine after slipping a punch, punching the other guy in the face, and then shooting in high.\n\nIn MMA, you need to be able to move your head and you need to be able to slip a punch occasionally.  Otherwise, striker or grappler, the probability is 100% that you'll eventually face an opponent who continually provides you with a stiff jab to the face for the entire match.  The counter to that strategy is to slip a punch and takedown or counterpunch.\n\nHead movement is as fundamental to MMA as knowing how to get off your back if you get taken down.", 
        "Yes, judo works fine after you've stunned your opponent with strikes (countered or not), but you usually can't immediately transition to a judo clinch after a slip unless they're just throwing wild.  Judo clinch setups mostly require you to have belly to belly or somehow get deep hip entry on your opponent.  You can see this with Ronda's earlier fights, where most of her entries into clinches are done after bullrushes to the fence, or head-grabs off of a wildly swinging opponent.", 
        "> she can't move her head enough to not get punched in the face.\n\nCan't help but notice how amazing Edmund's body of work is. Too bad he doesn't keep records.", 
        "Holm would not have initiated those exchanges if not for Tate's patience.", 
        "Seriously Miesha looked comparatively amazing in the standup by simply not rushing forward and moving laterally occasionally. It's pretty crazy how little damage Holm was able to inflict. ", 
        ">It's pretty crazy how little damage Holm was able to inflict.\n\nIt's not crazy at all, really. The Holly Holm we saw today was the same Holly Holm from every fight other than the Rousey destruction. Her losing was the only difference.", 
        "It's something I've noticed with Holm, she never throws punches to put someone down. On majority of the punches she connects with she's pulling them back just as they connect. Ronda put more power into Holm's punches than Holm did herself. ", 
        "She's done that in every fight I've seen her in other than the Rousey fight. ", 
        "This is important too. Overall Ronda's aggression, lackluster striking, and limited takedown arsenal combined with Holly's great striking and perfect game plan from Jackson-Wink were the perfect storm.", 
        "Holly just needed 2 more minutes of takedown defense. I feel like Holly tried to stand up more than she tried to protect her neck. Position over submission might not be the best when you're on defense. Just a thought.", 
        "I agree with everything you said except for 'position over submission'. That's what's usually said for the person aggressing. Keeping your position over trying to get subs is more important in order to keep dominant and not lose your advantage. Doesn't really apply for someone in a choke.\n\n Holly tried flipping cuz she thought it would let her escape. She was trying to improve/change her position to escape the submission. \n\nEscaping the sub was and could be her only goal, unlike someone on top where position and trying for subs are potentially 2 different things.", 
        "Yeah, Holly said she made the mistake of not fighting the hands. At least Tate deserves gold, she seems genuine like Holly. Ronda said she didn't watch the fight, wtf?", 
        "I could understand her not watching the fight though, especially as hard as she took the loss. She probably still sees it as her belt.", 
        "Mendes would agree with you.", 
        "There's a reason why people hate Edmund. Ronda's mom was right. Everything that made her special she had. Edmund was supposed to take her past that and, if not make her good enough to box with Holly (not really in the cards) do what *every other successful champion* has done and learned to force their strengths. \n\nThe only defense I can think of is that her knees are apparently just wrecked.", 
        "> The only defense I can think of is that her knees are apparently just wrecked.\n\nThat doesn't explain why her head movement is that of a chicken -- the body moves but the head stays in the same place.\n", 
        "Did you just call Ronda a chickenhead?", 
        "Uh oh. Don't tell Ronda.", 
        "Ronda may just be a bad student.  When you see her hit pads, she's actually got decent head movement and shoulder rolls, but that seems to fly out the window as soon as the door closes on the octagon.", 
        "Yeah. fighting isn't something you can just practice at and get better like math, or piano. Being able to apply what you've learned when somebody else is in front of you is a tremendous variable. \n\nRousey seems like she competed for so long in Judo that she can easily revert to that. The boxing hasn't come naturally for her. \n\nTo be fair, up until Holm, it hadn't mattered. But being able to hit pads and bags is one thing. Remembering all that in the chaos of a fight is another.", 
        "The odd thing is that the most exciting fight in the division will not involve the belt. Ronda VS Holly still must happen.", 
        "The UFC is probably cool with this.\n\nThe sales for Tate/Rousey 3 and then Rousey/Holm 2 will be staggering.  ", 
        "Or Triple Threat for the title at Wrestlemania.", 
        "Really? You think it's exciting to have the same 3 women fight each other over and over and over again?", 
        "I like Tate but I'm not really hyped to watch her fight. The hype in Rome VS Holly.", 
        "Better than ronda running over everyone. \n\n", 
        "throw in a zingano and its no worse than LHW", 
        "It's like Stone Cold, The Rock, and Triple H", 
        "UFC 200: Triple Threat Cage match! Rousey vs Tate vs Holm for the Women's championship! Bah Gawwwd King! This is gonna be an exciting match!", 
        "Is Meisha, Haitch?", 
        "Yes, she's the guy who wrestled the guys.", 
        "Because she fucking went over?", 
        "or the giant nose, either/or", 
        "Nose and pecs.", 
        "Now it's perfect. 2 former champs fight for #1 contender fight against new champ Tate to complete the trifecta. It's dollar signs everywhere. ", 
        "I think it's Holly-Tate II before Ronda is even close to being ready ", 
        "Unlikely. They'll give Tate to Rousey, and get that sweet Rousey/Tate 3 cash flowing.\n\nThen they can do Rousey/Holm 2.", 
        "It's going to be Ronda vs. Tate in July for UFC 200. I saw this coming a mile away. UFC gets their princess back easy. Ronda will then arm bar Tate in 7 seconds then get a her belt back. Easy $$", 
        "Tate looks a lot better now than she did vs Ronda. ", 
        "She didn't even defend it once.  She has to rebuild before a title shot.  I'm saying Rousey Tate 3, Nunes Holm for title shot.", 
        "Or Tate v Ronda, Ronda likely wins due to it being a good match up for her, then you get a Ronda v Holm rematch for the title. And even if she loses you get a Tate v Holm rematch.\n\nThis seems the way to go for me.", 
        "holm is getting old, i really don't think she'll be able to fight for that long.\n\nthere's a reason she pushed for this fight against miesha: time is running out", 
        "She's only 34", 
        "That's true, but if that was a concern for her she really should have waited for 200 and a Rousey rematch.", 
        "i mean if she thought she could win, then it makes sense to take as many fights as possible. unfortunately that wasn't the case", 
        "Very true. And she was what a minute from winning that fight? Her TDD was pretty great for the majority of the fight. Until suddenly it wasn't.", 
        "meisha's last takedown looked less orthodox. or less generic", 
        "Ballin Outta control. ", 
        "Cat Zingano we need you back", 
        "Current situation:\n\nZingano > Tate > Holm > Rousey > Zingano + 2\u00d7Tate\n\nThere are  loops.", 
        "Imagine the position she'd be in now if she had stayed active.", 
        "Now more than ever, someone has to shake things up", 
        "Glad Meisha got the finish, we were extremely close to a draw.  \nhere's the scorecard:  \nhttps://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cc2FEAdUUAAkxy8.jpg:large   \nAll judges had it 38-37 for Holly going into the fifth,  \nIf Tate wouldn't have finished the choke she would have grinded out a 10-9 for the fifth round and it would have ended in a disappointing draw.", 
        "I guess i saw the fight massively differently.  I didn't think holm won a single round.  She was always on the defensive and lost that second round by a huge margin.  It's crazy that she was so dominated in the second round and it was only a 10-8.  Holm was never as close to ending the fight as her opponent.  I'm not a huge fan just a casual observer.", 
        "You're way off. She won 1, 3, and 4. Miesha won the 2nd with the almost submission.", 
        "And what happens in that case? I don't think I've ever seen a title fight end in a draw.", 
        "Edgar vs Maynard 2 @ UFC 125. Frankie kept the belt and they rematched @ 136. ", 
        "all 3 judges gave a 10-8 round?\n\nI'm kind of amazed. Not that I disagree; I'm just surprised given how rare they are and how inconsistent judging can be", 
        "my reaction exactly. ", 
        "I always regain a tiny bit of faith in humanity when a grappling 10-8 is given. Like when Maia sexed all over Nelson.", 
        "I mean, if that round isn't a 10-8, then what is, right? It was nearly 3 minutes of control that Tate used *very* effectively.", 
        "I dunno, in a 5 round fight, 10-8 is just so impactful that I feel like you should have to lay a serious beatdown on somebody to get one. It's effectively saying that round was worth double points since it would take two of the standard 10-9s to cancel it out.\n\nI don't feel like Tate put a big enough beatdown on Holm in Round 2 to justify 10-8. Wrestlers get plenty of top-position credit as it is to give them extra points for simply being able to stay on top. Even GSP only got 3 10-8 scores (out of 15 between all three judges) in his fight against Hardy.", 
        "The corners knew it too. They told Miesha and Holly what was about to happen which is probably what made round 5 so freaking awesome.", 
        "There was a bunch on that card - 2 judges gave Darren Elkins a 10-8 round against Chas Skelly, and 2 gave Amanda Nunes a 10-8 round over Shevchenko, along with all three for the 2nd in the title fight. \n\nIn all of those cases, 10-8s were the absolute correct call - It was good to see them being used so appropriately. ", 
        "Aside from whatever possessed two of the judges to give Anderson round 1 over Lawlor, I don't think I could argue against anything they did last night.", 
        "Mirror?\n\nSays it was taken down due to copy right infringement. ", 
        "[Don't let them notice this one.](https://streamable.com/9n0a)", 
        "You got one for diaz's?", 
        "[You probably found one already, but here you go.](https://streamable.com/hbn5)", 
        "You're the real mvp. \n\nThanks for both of those. ", 
        "went to sleep punching", 
        "At she didn't tap like conor. G shit. Respect holly ", 
        "Good on her. I mean at some point, particularly with limbs, the no tap mindset can lead to lifelong damage (ligament tears, big bone brakes, big nog recently admitted his arm that mir snapped bothers him often) but for a rear naked it's always going to be clean blood flow restriction. \n\nHollys a champion. It was obvious that the belt meant a lot to her. She coulda waited for rousey, but took a just as hard if not harder fight in meantime to make money and prove to everyone (herself included) she's the best. Tapping on that choke would be handing your opponent everything you've worked for just because you don't want to pass out..", 
        "I thought it was pretty badass tbh. Boxing and punching is such a conditioned and integral part of her that as she was going into unconsciousness, her body's response and way of fighting back was instinctually to throw punches even though it doesn't make any sense and doesn't do anything practically to escape. \n\nIt's like her mind was shutting down and it's response was just ' fuck that, punch your way out', even if it was an RNC. ", 
        "To be honest, I don't think that was completely what happened. I think she was trying to tap out, but so late into the choke that it came out looking like desperate punches.", 
        "Yeah I remember thinking that in the moment as well, 'is she trying to tap or grab something to get out?' But I still like thinking it was her mindset of never give up and that manifesting unconsciously as punch, punch, punch.", 
        "I thought it looked like she was trying to tap...", 
        "I honestly think she was probably already out or going out when she started doing that. I think that was a practically unconscious response on her part, idk what her body was trying to do but I believe it was an automatic thing.\n\n Either way it didn't make sense and made me think that was just a conditioned response due to training. Similar to how some fighters try to grapple refs after they are woken up by them (ala Anderson Silva)", 
        "Like a dog running in its sleep... Enjoy that dream", 
        "Holly was becoming purple", 
        "I think she went to sleep as she was trying to tap and you saw the muscle spasm. ", 
        "Yeah... I thought she was trying to tap...", 
        "Those phantom punches are so sad...", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "okay bro don't get too excited", 
        "I didn't get the impression she was trying to punch something that wasn't there, I thought she was submitting.", 
        "Yeah to me it looked like utter panic, like she wanted to tap but she had never been in that situation before so wasn't sure what to do.", 
        "I didn't think they were. It was admirable in a way, I thought ", 
        "yeah, I feel bad for her, she really didn't want to lose there esp when the fight was probably going to her by decision.\n\n Unlike Ronda though I think she has nothing to be embarrassed about here, she was arguably winning the fight up until that moment and it was competitive. She showed heart by not tapping, and doing that last-ditch attempt at flipping Miesha over, thats more than a lot of fighters are willing to do to try and escape a RNC.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm saying it was the end of the 5th round and Holly was winning on points so it's the worst possible time to get caught and lose like that, hence why she didn't tap. She will be second guessing herself a lot now about how she could've won by stalling more or fighting hands at the end.", 
        "The entire comment is actually a solid analysis. ", 
        "And your comment adds what to the discussion? ", 
        "the judges scored the second round 10-8 so it wouldve been a draw if Holly didnt get submitted there ", 
        "Assuming they gave Meisha round 5.", 
        "Depends on how the judges see it. Holly was dominating the round up until that point, so if the judges would've awarded the round to Miesha due to that one sub attempt, then yeah. Otherwise Holly wins 48-46.", 
        "Holly would have retained if it was a draw right?", 
        "yep", 
        "[Been waiting a long time for this, image with the belt would be better.](http://i.imgur.com/CUZl4n3.png)\n", 
        "She has a nice rack.", 
        "tits", 
        "d\u00e9class\u00e9", 
        "Unclassy ", 
        "De-classy.", 
        "Dude, thank you. I about to end my sentence with a reference to it, changed my mind but did some research. It's d\u00e9class\u00e9 ", 
        "She bought a nice rack", 
        "Who cares? ", 
        "It's more of a curiosity than anything. In a sport where weight--cutting is important, adding extra un-cuttable weight is definitely a talking point.", 
        "Hey, I'm still staring at them", 
        "Some people care.", 
        "Who in the world would get breast enlargement surgery as an MMA fighter?", 
        "Maybe it works as a cushion against impacts", 
        "\nthe champ, apparently.", 
        "Hopefully Nate Diaz with his pocket full of cash.", 
        "\"I dont give a fuck!\"", 
        "> \"I dont give a fuck!\"\n\nIt would be a waste then...", 
        "[I don't give a fuck either.](http://i.imgur.com/gQ2qve6.jpg)\n\n>Brian Zembic, nicknamed the Wiz, is a magician and high-stakes gambler specializing in blackjack and backgammon. In the late 90s he became famed as a man who would do anything to win a bet. His most famous wager was in 1996 when he agreed to receive breast implants and keep them for one year in return for US$100,000. The year passed and he won the bet but he became accustomed to the breasts and did not have them removed.", 
        "I noticed the size for the first time tonight as well, particularly because of that nasty kick Holm landed right into the tiddies. ", 
        "Damn man put to sleep. I'm speechless ", 
        "Her and Connor were defeated with the same choke and she's the one who didn't tap. ", 
        "It shows Holly's heart, but Conor's also a brown belt in BJJ and knows when he's been caught and that taking a mat nap is pointless.", 
        "Everyone's harping on about how quickly he tapped, but he was done and he knew it. It was cinched up - he was done. I'd rather tap and stand up right away and look as gracious as possible in defeat rather than be a drooling mess on the mat wondering what planet I was on as the cameras and crew storm the Octagon. ", 
        "Plus when he got tagged by Nate and he wobbled then tried for a double you could tell he was done.", 
        "I hope Holm gets another chance. it should really be Holm Vs Rousey to decide who Tate faces next but that's not likely to happen. \n\nAlso hope people don't start saying Hollys win was a fluke just because she lost tonight. ", 
        "You're probably going to get Ronda v. Miesha because it will make the most money.\n\n...and because Ronda will probably win, which will also make the most money.", 
        "She still beat Rousey's ass.", 
        "I actually think it will be still be Holm vs Rousey to see who fights Tate. Dana won't pass up a Holm v. Rousey rematch. ", 
        "The UFC will still get that after Rousey/Tate 3. I mean, Tate put together a good game plan for somebody she could out-fight on the ground, but she still doesn't have anything in her arsenal to defeat Rousey.", 
        "Actually Rousey wants Holmes first. She has stated since her loss that Holmes is the first fight she wants. ", 
        "I think she will change tune now the Miesha is champ and she has defeated Miesha both fights. I also think Miesha will win the next fight with her.", 
        "Now she will work diligently to take her down instead of try to box a boxing champ. ", 
        "sup holmes", 
        "Rousey vs Zingano for a contender bout would be awesome", 
        "I think Nunes needs to be in the conversation too after beating a solid up-and-comer tonight. Maybe her vs. Holm for the next title shot after Rousey vs. Cat?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Huh? That's a bit backward logic. The way to look at that would be that Rousey has done a better job against Tate than Holm has, therefore she should be the one with the next title shot.\n\nI don't mind seeing Holm vs. Rousey as #1 contender fight, maybe let Tate fight Nunes in the meantime, but if you are going to follow your logic to its conclusion it would be Rousey with the fight, not Holm.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Things happen. That's why flukes are flukes...", 
        "No one will call it a fluke. We all still know who is the best striker in the division by far. Ms Holm. ", 
        "100% this. Holly won every round where she stayed on her feet. Her takedown defense is amazing, but Tate has been grappling for a decade and it's hard to never get taken down over the course of 25 minutes against her. It's very difficult for someone worse than Tate on the ground to beat her, which is why Ronda has been her Kryptonite.", 
        "yep she needs a lot of work on her ground game though, obviously", 
        "Her TDD is great though so all she needs is basic BJJ skills to not get flustered and to get back on her feet when her TDD fails and she's good to go. Last night was a gameplan mistake too, all she had to do in the last round was to not overcommit to anything and it would've been an easy win, since it was obvious that Tate had only a one win condition and that was to grab Holm after an overextended punch, which is exactly what happened. Some of the blame is on Greg Jackson too for not telling Holm to jab her way to a W before the last round.", 
        "I really like that move of securing the choke before getting the hooks in, especially if you're behind on the cards and you're opponent is more of a striker than grappler, they can be ready for the normal way of doing things but you get a little of the beaten path and they start going out of their depth.\n\nedit * another great example of this working at a lower level is Roland Delorme vs Nick Denis. Nick Denis was lighting Delorme up but as soon as the fight went out his wheel house and he went to the habit of trying to break hooks that weren't there to be found and leaving his neck open. even just momentarily thinking about it will add that delay that allows the finish to come for the grapplers of the world.", 
        "Holly literally went out fighting.  She'll be back.  Love Tate recognizing what she had to do and actually going for it.  ", 
        "When she sat down in her corner after round 4 she asked Bryan \"Was that my fourth round?\" I want to know what went through her mind when he said yes. I bet it was very championy.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/slgEHKS.png", 
        "They're coming after GIFS NOW!! WHAAATTTT!?\n", 
        "That is sad af", 
        "Tonight Miesha will wear that belt while she pegges Bryan Caraway", 
        "Did you see her push him out of the way after round one? That guy is definitely a bottom bitch.", 
        "itt: redditors wanting to fuck miesha. I agree", 
        "Happy International Women's Day!", 
        "This comment needs so many more upvotes than it's getting.", 
        "I don't know anything about anything ", 
        "You and the rest of this sub.", 
        "I was rooting for Meisha and Nate, but I was absolutely sure that Holly and Conor would win. I was so happy and surprised when they both won. This sport is so unpredictable, there is no such thing as a \"sure thing\" in MMA. ", 
        "Holly had been completely untested, and had looked pretty mediocre up to the Ronda fight. It wasn't outside of the realm of possibility at all that she would get wrestlefucked by Meisha.  ", 
        "> I was rooting for Meisha and Nate\n\nI wasn't. Bad night for me.", 
        "Wow, I really thought that Holm was going to win. But I'm happy for Miesha. But I'm a fan of Rousey. I'm feeling confused right now.", 
        "Fuck one marry one kill one...?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This is quite possibly the easiest FMK choice of all time. ", 
        "I don't think it's that easy. I haven't heard much bad stuff about Tate, and that story of her saving her boyfriend's mother's life puts her way up there. Miesha is an easy contender for M.", 
        "What a great upset by Misha. But 3 hours have already passed and it's still below 140 comments. Got overshadowed by the Conor/Diaz show I guess.", 
        "Holm is great but aint no Conor, thats the difference i guess there", 
        "She put up a better ground defense that McGregor ever did and went out swinging. Conor tapped at the first sign of trouble.", 
        "That has nothing to do why this fight got overshadowed by Nate vs Conor", 
        "He had him in a rear naked choke with no way out, it's just idiotic not to tap and it wasn't even a title fight.", 
        "I was actually more impressed and happier with Tate's win. Tate had a long hard road to get here. It's amazing she finally got the belt. ", 
        "I've been watching her since her early Strikeforce days so I definitely wanted to cry with her. I freaking love Miesha Tate. Never will a fighter, man or woman, have more grit than that one.", 
        "Holly's striking instincts kick in, right as she goes out.", 
        "Vindication.", 
        "Faark didn't some guy bet 70k on Miesha to win?  Would have got PAID for that bet.", 
        "He got a total payout of 330,300", 
        "He's probably up around 70k, but man you'd have been sweating bullets up until that last minute.", 
        "I thought Miesha would have paid back 3 or 4 to 1", 
        "All about the match ups. Miesha has great grappling and can hang on the feet. Holly looked very uncomfortable on the ground. I'm really happy for Miesha, she's earned this 100 times over. ", 
        "Holly is definitely uncomfortable on the ground. If you look at her past fights, she's extremely hard to keep down there, so Miesha's victory is even more impressive when you realize how hard it is to take Holm down much less keep her there and finish the fight. ", 
        "I'm hoping for a Rousey Holm rematch to see who gets the title shot against Tate.", 
        "Anyone notice that Holm went out throwing punches? I thought that said a lot about her character. Her most primal instinct was to go down throwing. ", 
        "Connor, on the other hand, tapped. \n\nNo disrespect to Connor. He's the man. But they both lost in the same choke, he tapped, she didn't. Then again, he was being choked out by Nate Diaz...", 
        "No disrespect to you, but that sounds like such a \"woo meathead power!\" way of looking at things.", 
        "I never said she should or shouldn't have done it. Was just pointing out that she didn't. Connor was a better sport though. ", 
        "That's silly. You should tap and I don't have more respect for her losing consciousness. There's no way out of either choke. It's like saying you should have a limb broken rather than submit.\n\n With the concussion awareness we have now, it wouldn't be surprising if they find out there's also long term effects to constantly getting the blood cut off from your brain.", 
        "That shit made me giggle real hard. ", 
        "She was looking for a light switch, because everything went dark.\n", 
        "Hell yeah. She kept fighting till the lights went out. The last message across her internal dialogue screen was definitely \n\"F-I-G-H-T\"", 
        "So tonight instead of watching the fight I went to a wrestling show in LA. Ronda was there with Travis Browne and Marina Shafir because Marina's fianc\u00e9 is the champ (was, fuck you Roddy).\n\nMy friend texted me the result of the Miesha-Holm fight and I turned around to look and see Ronda reading about it on her phone with her jaw dropped.", 
        "Lucha Underground or PWG? I know she's been to PWG before. ", 
        "PWG", 
        "Pretty insightful if true. Neat info.", 
        "So pumped she got the title finally!", 
        "At least an immediate Holm/ Rousey rematch makes a lot more sense now.", 
        "At least the UFC is keeping things interesting", 
        "Rousey got butterflies watching this. She got her golden ticket back to the belt", 
        "Title defenses: 0\n\nInteresting how people were hailing her as a potential GOAT before she ever defended, no matter who her opponent was.", 
        "Result of her defeating the previous \"OMG GREATEST FIGHTER ON THE PLANET GUYS\".  \"Hype\"..good for money, bad for predicting outcomes. ", 
        "This was for me the best womens match I've ever seen. Had everything and what a glorious ending. The joy on Tate's face was amazing. It made it worth paying for the ppv. \n\nMy wish was for this fight was that it would be amazing and help women's mma move on from Ronda who I'm still not sure will return. And it did just that. \n\nI'm so glad that Tate won and got the finish, because if she had just won the round it would have ended in a draw according to the scorecards which someone posted on here. ", 
        "I'm sure Rhonda is interested now. She matched up poorly against Holm and needed to learn to new stuff to have a chance, she's already beaten Tate twice with the same fighting style, moves and submission. Chances are it'll just be more of the same with the third fight (Tate escaping a couple armbar attempts but eventually getting caught)\n\nDana just needs to hotshot Rousey-Tate and never rematch Holm to Rousey", 
        "Yeah I'm in a split mind about Ronda.\n\nOn one hand she doesn't respect Tate so I don't know if she's in a rush to beat her because in her mind \"i can beat her anytime.\"  And she's been talking about how she wants to beat Holly so badly and avenge her loss and continue her \"undefeated' nonsense. So that might be her first fight.\n\nThen again there is the chance that Ronda fights Tate and pretends that Holly doesn't exist. ", 
        "Holly getting buried would suck but then again the backlash against Ronda would be even greater than when she lost if the UFC held Holly down to protect Ronda.", 
        "They don't need to hold her down, just set up hard match-ups for her while Rhonda beats the same people again a third time around.", 
        " http://i.imgur.com/IKPrfMs.jpg ", 
        "Full fight video.\n\nhttp://mma-tube.net/video/OS9MY9H8YG3B/Holly-Holm-vs-Miesha-Tate-Fight-Video-UFC-196", 
        "she tried to box out of a rnc", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Not really, it wasn't after a concussion ", 
        "I think that was her trying to tap as she was going unconsious", 
        "Posted this prior to the bout: Holm could simply be to Ronda as Hallman was to Hughes. She's a good fighter but her other fights in the UFC were lackluster at best. Miesha worked a nice gameplan avoiding playing into Holly's strengths and it worked out. Other fighters will build upon that and give her further trouble as well.", 
        "This is really the case. Holm had all the tools to beat a fighter like Rousey. The question was whether or not she'd have the composure to put them all to work in the cage. The answer was yes.\n\nThe reality is that Rousey will still dominate a third fight with Tate. Tate had the tools to beat Holm because she could out-fight her on the ground. Tate still doesn't have any tools capable of beating Rousey. ", 
        "Copyright blocking it. Any alts?", 
        "Copyright on a GIF?! \n\nMan UFC really doesn't want to create fans.", 
        "I really enjoyed Holly's doggy paddling while she was going unconscious. Reminds me of this http://imgur.com/mVRgJPd.gif", 
        "> I really enjoyed Holly's doggy paddling while she was going unconscious.\n\nEnjoyed? You may want to see a psychologist...", 
        "Another of holy's fans, I see. My condolences to your one-time, poorly trained, bag pipe loving clown of an ex-champ. She will make a great mattress salesman. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah. It's called fucking MMA. Why are you even here?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Epic triggering. holly hidey holmes  was demolished by Meisha Tate. Meisha was briefly charged with 1st degree murder, but some ringside doc gave halfwit holmes some mouth to snout and brought it back just in time for her retirement. ", 
        "Chill out, dude. If you don't enjoy watching knockouts, why would you follow this sport? I'm genuinely curious. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Haha! Sore loser, my god.", 
        "Sure. I could see that. If you don't particularly care for a fighter, you might relish in seeing them go down though. ", 
        ">You really enjoyed someone getting choked unconscious from the comfort of your chair?\n\nI mean.  That's sort of the whole point of the sport.  Choke, or knock your opponent unconscious.  If there weren't people who enjoyed watching it from the comfort of their chairs, there would be no sport, no fans, no /r/mma.  \n\nI loved it personally and I'm a Holly fan.  She went out on her shield.  Didn't tap and was still fighting while unconscious.  Fucking **warrior**.", 
        "Someone should photoshop Holly's face on that dog..", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Holly. ", 
        "Holm in a very close decision", 
        "2 rounds to 1 holm with one round a split going into the fifth.  Holm would have retained by default if tate doesn't shoot and choke her out at the end ", 
        "I had it scored 49-48 for holly. Miesha clearly won round 2", 
        "The first thing I thought when Meisha won is that guy who bet on her and bet on Holm to beat Rousey.", 
        "I loved this fight, probably a bit more than the McGregor Diaz fight. I love Holly Holm and I think she's a great fighter and a great person overall, but I favoured Tate over Holm, I think Tate deserved it more. Tate is longer in the mma game. She has been waiting years for that moment. And on top of that I just find her hot, and you gotta love her personality. I like that she's easy going and not so spazzy and full of anger like Ronda. \n Watching the walk in, I fell in love with her, haha.\nThe fight was extremely tactical but I liked that. Anyway, both fought great, Tate waited till the last minute, wrote her (hi)story and well deserved the win.", 
        "i blame holms trainers. they should have been on her before the 5th round to keep her distance from tate. there was no reason for her to be aggressive in the last round she had her clearly beat in 3 of the 4 rounds. ", 
        "She did not clearly win 3 rounds at all. There wasnt shit done in rounds 1 and 3.", 
        "ok.", 
        "Holm was winning rounds 1,3, and 4 http://i.imgur.com/i77jaZM.png", 
        "Yup, when in doubt blame Greg Jackson and Wink... No its just she's not that good and was fortunate to have \"bull rush\" Ronda fighting her that night in the past... Every other fight she's looked mediocre. She will never be champ again.", 
        "Let's be real. It would be quite risky to bet on having won those rounds.", 
        "Actually, someone posted the scorecards up there, and every judge had given Tate 10-8 for her dominant round. So a 10-9 for Tate in the 5th would have meant a tie.\n\nI think the champion keeps the belt with a tie, but in any case when a fight is this close being inactive is quite risky.", 
        "MMA judging. That is all.", 
        "Rhonda could have won against Holly that way!", 
        "They're not the same fighter.\n\nAs much as Miesha is known as a tough brawling grappler, she showed way more technique and footwork standing than Ronda did. Her approach to the ground game is also entirely different.\n\nI have no reason to think Ronda could do the same thing.", 
        "Rousey has a GREAT ground game in my opinion. Should have never stood up to Holms like she did. Too cocky. Meisha did it just right. Get inside and get on her.", 
        "> Meisha did it just right.\n\nWell, even Meisha struggled to get Holm down. How many takedowns did Meisha get in this fight? Two?", 
        "It's not that she tried to stand up to Holm, she *tried* to take her down, but she used one strategy: judo throw. Which Holly was extremely well prepared to defend. ", 
        "It was Tate's better striking ability/defense compared to Rousey's that enabled Tate to put Holm in that position. Tate's striking game is nowhere near Holm's, but it was enough to buy her the opportunities to take Holm down. Rousey had none of that.", 
        "Totally agree.\n\n...except Ronda couldn't get it to the ground because Holly specifically evaded all grappling as she should have. After Tate Rnd2, Holm attempted to evade grappling the entire rest of the match, but Tate is a fuckin pitbull and will eventually catch something to take it down when she needs to.", 
        "Well, Rousey *was* trying to get it to the ground, it just didn't work for any significant stretch of time. No way she went in there with the idea of out boxing Holm.", 
        "Rousey's mistake was not being more patient with the takedown. She was aggressive and wild. Tate, while not efficient getting the takedown, chose her opportunities better. She essentially played the cautious survival game with Holly while waiting for her moment and it worked.", 
        "Plus Rondas takedowns are initiated upright in the clinch, so she had to be close. Miesha was shooting from outside jab range ", 
        "I'd have to watch again, but wasn't both of her takedowns upperbody grabs? They weren't like wild level changes.", 
        "Second was more dragging her from behind, can't remember how she got it. And the second was probably around the waist and she stepped in for a trip. Lower than Rondas clinches anyway", 
        "The advantage in wrestling takedowns vs judo throws in this case. If Holm was a brawler, Rousey would have had more opportunity. But Holm is a boxer.", 
        "Exactly. If you're not coming forward or you're not getting backed into the cage, those Judo throws are much more difficult to get in position for. Although, to Rousey's credit, she did take her down at one point but by then she was already beaten up a bit so she didn't capitalize.", 
        "Exactly, she didn't try and stand with Holly. She just couldn't do her usual rush-throw-armbar because Holly kept her on the outside.", 
        "Can't wait to see Rousey/Tate 3, said nobody. Love Tate as a fighter, but man I do not want to see that fight. ", 
        "Miesha deserved her win. She kept it cool until the last round and won. She's unlike a certain fighter I know who threw out all of her plans to charge at her opponent like a sad bull right after taking some hits in the first seconds of the match.", 
        "Removed by the UFC, hahahaha! ", 
        "Why the fuck gfycat would even oblige their request? Dana White can fuck off.", 
        "Tate actually had a few nice counter shots in this fight. ", 
        "Man, it feels strange hearing that Tate is the champion. Strange, but still very good.", 
        "Damn i feel really sorry for Holly, but Miesha does deserve to finally win the title.\n\nHolly really came back after the 2nd round and was winning the fight IMO up until that RNC.\n\nAlso weird that both champs were stopped by rear naked choke, i did not see that coming. I won money on Nate, but i wish i had put that submission win bet on miesha. I had Holly in the 2nd by TKO.", 
        "That Holm ghost punch is legit haunting.. ", 
        "What about that fact that Holly would rather go out than tap and then  Connor....", 
        "Connor has a better understanding of chokes to realize he wasn't getting out of it.", 
        "Yep, same choke. The man tapped. The woman went out swinging (literally).\n\nBut I would probably fear for my life too in the hands of Nate Diaz. Can't blame the guy.", 
        "Going out is dumb. Holly has a dumb anti-jiu jitsu mentality. Conor is a legit brown belt and knows when the fight is done. That demonstrates a higher fight IQ by Conor in my opinion. Holly really got exposed as a pretty terrible white belt in this fight. ", 
        "I really don't want to see Rousey vs Tate 3.... \n\nJust give Holm the rematch and let Ronda work her way back up.\n\nShe bailed on the rematch with Holm for her Shitty acting career so now I gotta see a fucking armbar on Tate again being hyped ? no thanks ", 
        "So a dominant champion shouldn't get a title shot, but somebody that couldn't even defend their belt once should?  You're letting your petty little emotions cloud your judgment man.", 
        "A dominant champion who only beat hyped up scrubs that is", 
        "So the current champ is a hyped up scrub?", 
        "She's the only credible win in rouseys .career", 
        "I think Dana realizes everyone wants to see a Holm v. Rousey before a Tate rematch of either fighter. At least I hope so. \n\nThen again, he may just wanna give Rousey the belt again so Holly can take it back. ", 
        "Everyone does want to see it and they should go that route , I don't see Tate successfully defending the title. Nothing against her ", 
        "Anyone has a screen of Ronda's face?", 
        "THAT was the best fight of UFC 196! I mean - choking in 5th round when (ex) champion was winning... \n\nGot to love this sport!", 
        "Cutest pound for pound champ ", 
        "Anyone see the judges scorecards for Tate vs Holm? Might be interesting. However,  I'd expect Holm would have been cruising to a UD. ", 
        "http://reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4962yy/spoiler_imagegif_holly_holm_vs_miesha_tate/d0pesh6", 
        "It was striking, no pun intended, to see the contrast between Miesha's style and Ronda's. Meisha waited for opportunities and capitalized on them where Ronda rushed in. Obviously the results speak for themselves.", 
        "Pure jubilation. Congrats cupcake ", 
        "I find the whole  Holly beats Ronda beats Misha beats Holly interesting. Each of them exploits a hole in the other's game. I'm still waiting for Cyborg to fight at least one of them but Dana's a cuck so it probably wont happen ever.  ", 
        "So does this mean Holly is Buster Douglas?", 
        "When this fight was still a RUMOUR I said it's a bad career move for Holly. She should've waited for Ronda. But lots of people said Holly should fight Miesha lol. Now women's belt will go nowhere as Miesha vs Ronda, Miesha loses. Then Holm vs Ronda, Holm wins. Then Meisha Holm all over again.", 
        "Idk, sounds fun to me.", 
        "This is just proof to me that Ronda beat herself in the last fight.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This seems to be the popular opinion but I don't see it. Ronda took down miesha a lot. Tate landed just a couple takedowns on Ronda. Striking for Tate and Ronda is pretty evenly bad IMO. \n\nDownvotes commeth but I definitely think Ronda fucked it up herself.", 
        "Ronda can only takedown someone from a clinch and Holly's clinch game is very strong (as we saw even today). Ronda needs to be able to take Holm down consistently if she wants to have a chance and that would mean improving her wrestling.", 
        "She did. She bull rushed and she gave up the back to go for an armbar when she finally did get a takedown. I think she was so focused on getting a signature 30 second armbar win. Holm's ground game is obviously very rudimentary. At least I don't have to hear people talk about how Holly's ground game is much closer to Ronda's ground game than Ronda's boxing is to Holly's. People were blowing Holly the fuck up.", 
        "Yep, fathead syndrome just like McGregor. Ronda was complacent playing to her own strength until she got so lit up she couldn't survive. I'd be interested in the rematch for sure.", 
        "Ronda is easily beatable once you figure her out. Holm even was winning against Tate until the RNC.\n\nIf this went to a dec Holm would have been up 4-1. Holm is legit but is still blue and if she gets the wrestling down more than she is gold.\n\nHell, in the press conf she even knew where she messed up. The girl losing this one probably is great as it puts where she needs to grow in more of a specific perspective.", 
        "Meisha Banter Tate", 
        "It's obviously going to get overshadowed by Diaz merking McGregor but this was perhaps one of my favourite title changes ever. Really huge respect to Tate for digging so deep and finding a concrete finish in the final round to finally get the gold. Loved it", 
        "I said before the fight that Holly not only needed to beat Meisha but do so convincingly to prove her doubters wrong, and the fact that she did neither is just going raise the voices of those who saw the Ronda win as a fluke, especially when she looked so unconvincing on the ground. If anything is going to save her it's the way she lost by passing out rather then submitting, but in terms of money fights her only option is a Ronda rematch if it happens.\n\nAs for what Ronda does next I'm 80% she'll go for the title, the Holm loss shook Ronda big time and I don't think her ego would allow her to consider the idea of losing to Holly again, but because she has fought and beaten Meisha before I think she'll play it safe, if she wins that one then she'll consider the Holly rematch.\n", 
        "Nah man, the money fights are Holm v Rousey II and Tate v Nunes.", 
        "Holly should've stayed standing and glued to that cage and she had a good idea of initially turning into the choking arm but she should've kept doing it. Staying tight to the cage while turning into Tate would've gotten her out of the choke and peeled Tate off her back. I admire her dedication to throw her off though.", 
        "And the big winner last night was ....................BRAIN CARRAWAY!!!", 
        "Holly fan here.\n\nThe silver lining of her loss is that 10 min later no one was talking about it. :)", 
        "Ugh, it's literally just been taken down.", 
        "An immediate rematch would be fully retarded (so they'll probably consider it), but that fight did a good job selling an eventual one.", 
        "I was waiting for a head to pop off and roll across the mat.", 
        "I fucking  love Miesha  Tate. Goodnight Holly! Haha. Holy fuck.  I thought she had her in the 2nd  round but Holly  somehow managed to survive that.\n\nCongrats champ!\n\nI wonder what Ronda  is thinking right now.", 
        "Do you guys think Holly could have finished the fight? I don't suggest she had Miesha hurt at any point, but she has the arsenal to do it.\n\nThere's something annoying about Jackson and Winklejohn when it comes to finishing fights / doing real damage. Condit could have arguably finished Lawler and i think if Holly risked a little bit more she could have done the same to Miesha, at least do more damage.", 
        "check Holly's pre-Ronda fight with Raquel Pennington. Tate could threat with wrestling and didnt just charge which is why Holm didnt light her up.", 
        "No, this is how Holly always fights if her opponent isn't just running at her.", 
        "That's my point. She always fights like this and she's been training under Winklejohn for a very long time. So has Carlos, who granted has  always been more aggressive but not when it matter, not vs GSP, Diaz or Lawler.", 
        "Holy shit.  Why did i miss this fight???", 
        "[ ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrWHZ8geoCg)", 
        "I know it's cool to say \"I black out before I tap out\" and all, but holly taped. It just wasn't a normal top. She was a classy champ and I'm sure Miesha will be as well. ", 
        "huh?? I didn't see a tap. I saw her punching until the lights went out. ", 
        "That wasn't a punch. You don't punch from that position. That was a very desperate tape. ", 
        "You tap your opponent. She was obviously punching. Are you watching the correct footage?? ", 
        "Dude seriously. So many new mma fans. ", 
        "Clearly, this is a self reference.", 
        "Get your eyes checked.", 
        "Get your brain checked. Who was she punching? The invisible person in front of her? Learn something about the sport before you come and comment on this.  ", 
        "She was half conscious, do you think you make your best decisions as the lights are going out?", 
        "You are literally the only human being on the planet that didn't see what the fuck happened. \n\n\"Round 5: Tate is pressuring hard and manages to sneak in a left hook. Holm scores with an oblique kick in response, plus a left hand. Tate shoots again from the outside, but can get nowhere. Tate backs Holm into the fence for a takedown, but Holm stuffs it and separates. Holm lands a side kick and Tate rushes in for a takedown, but no dice. Tate spins on a takedown attempt to the back and secures a choke. Holm stands  and tries to throw Tate off of her, but they roll forward and the choke is still in. That's it. **Tate puts Holm to sleep** in a fight she was surely losing.\"\n\n\"Holm first tried to escape by rising to her feet, then by flipping Tate forward over her own head. But Tate held on tight \u2013 \u201clike a pitbull on a bone,\u201d as Tate said in her post-fight interview \u2013 and kept squeezing. **Holm refused to tap, and soon lost consciousness, forcing referee John McCarthy to step in and call it off** at the 3:30 mark of Round 5, handing Tate the UFC women\u2019s bantamweight title.\"\n\nhttp://mmajunkie.com/2016/03/ufc-196-results-miesha-tate-wins-title-from-holly-holm-with-dramatic-fifth-round-choke\n\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "When you lose consciousness your brain thinks weird shit. It was obvious she was punching. ", 
        "You know what, fuck it. Go with the popular uneducated opinion. Since you are clearly uneducated. ", 
        "Take it easy man. ", 
        "hahaha you're literally having a melt down in this thread.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Naw, she just went lower with her takedowns. High clinches got stuffed. Single / double legs were successful.", 
        "the Octagon has 8 sides.", 
        "Choked her OUT. \n\nRespect to Holly for not tapping.\n\n\"Shh, shh, shh. Just let it happen.\"", 
        "Ronda must hate herself knowing she would have won if she would have taken her down instead of trying to box her up.", 
        "Is there a frame-rate issue towards the end of the gif, or is it just my computer?", 
        "Not just you, the gif goes into fast forward for me as well, presumably made that way.", 
        "Connor tapped out way faster then Holm", 
        "Sexy. ", 
        "She's doesn't tap and goes out like a warrior. Some fighters on the card could learn from that. ", 
        "I've been choked out several times. Not something I enjoy, can't imagine what it'll be like being choked after being rocked by punches.", 
        "Agreed.", 
        "People that say this have never done a day of BJJ in their lives.", 
        "Incorrect. The first time I was put out I was scared as fuck. Woke up seated with my training partner going are you ready to go? I sat up and slapped hands on autopilot. Had no recollection. Wired. I tap during rolls to chokes. Not in tournaments. Thanks for playing though!", 
        "No one's impressed by the guy getting choked unconscious at a tournament because he's too stubborn to tap. That's not bravado, that's stupidity.\n\nDifferent if you're fighting out of a submission and lose the race against the clock, I've had that happen in triangle chokes before. But when your opponent has a fully sunk in RNC like Tate or Diaz did, there's no point in holding on just to say you didn't tap.", 
        "I'm not trying to be impress anyone. I openly admit I quick tap to joint locks and neck cranks because fuck that shit I have a day job. But I will fight till my last breath on a choke. ", 
        "Ahhh, Tate crossed her ankles.  If Holm knew how to do the ankle break from there I am sure Tate would have let go.  I have seen high level brown belts throwning on a RNC give up after their opponent let go of the choking arm and forced the ankle break.", 
        "the choke was set and she fully extended her......no", 
        "is it ABMORMAL that i get aroused when i things like this?", 
        "miesha's tatas looked very nice at the end of that gif.... ^i'll^see^my^way^out", 
        "And now we're back to the Ronda Nut Hugging. WTF???", 
        "Muahahaha.....fuck you Holm nuthugers. Talking shit about Ronda and praising Holly. Seeing holes in Ronda's game and ignoring Holly's. Fuck you. I hope you are enjoying yourself cause I am....", 
        "If both fighters are ugly, why do they show womens fights? ", 
        "fucking finally someone choked that bitch out", 
        "Well, this continues to prove how young women's MMA still is.", 
        "Where the fuck was the ref?  Holly was unconscious for a good few seconds before he even got close to calling it.\n\n\n", 
        "no, she tapped and ref stopped. she was unconsc after", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Lol you're not wrong, but she can be sexy AF too", 
        "ITT: everyone talking about Ronda.\n\nShe's tasted Hollywood and getting her ass kicked.  She's gonna stick to Hollywood for as long as they'll have her and won't ever train properly again.", 
        "I can't imagine her sport has a long career length. Might as well cash out while she can and earn a nice retirement.", 
        "Thank god. I honestly forgot about this division since holly, she's a fun fighter to watch but us literally invisible in media. Too boring. Meisha deserved this. ", 
        "you knew it was night night as soon as he got bambi legs\n", 
        "It might have been different if he could get out of that round but there was 2 and half minutes left and it just felt like too much time. Much respect to Nate for recognizing it and taking advantage.", 
        "Yeah, Nate might have gassed out, and Conor might have recovered.\n\nExcept... probably not.  Look at every Diaz fight out there. That's the gameplan, bucko.  Conor just played his part in Nate's gameplan.", 
        "Conor was rocked that's all I'm saying ", 
        "He just went lateround bob sapp from that straight.", 
        "But I thought he had lion legs", 
        "I just saw the fights and it was weird seeing Conor repeatedly throw the big 1-2 over and over.  I noticed he looked gassed/depleted in Round 2 and thought to myself, \"wtf...?\"  The post fight interview when he said he didn't manage his energy it made sense.  He didn't mix up his movement and strikes enough in Round 1 and he didn't seem to have any experience with fighting someone taller and longer who was also a southpaw so he fell into a comfortable and bad groove.\n\nSo with Conor's energy lowered, he got popped and Nate carried that momentum into a finish.  If Conor's energy had matched Nate's in the 2nd round, I think he would have beaten him because he started landing shots more often and was a real threat to Nate.\n\nTL;DR: Energy management.", 
        "connor Mcbambi legs", 
        "Gazelle legs ", 
        "My friends arent as into MMA as I am and they're saying how Nate got lucky and Conor had a shot to finish it and like, this is every Diaz fight. This shit ain't luck and this isn't the first scalp we've seen from a high level guy who got outclassed by them as the fight wore on. I knew once Conor got the glassy look on his face. This was signature Diaz. ", 
        "Conor almost KOd Nate before being rocked. Of course luck enters into it.", 
        "LOL, almost KO'd Nate, that's adorable. Watch more Nate fights. ", 
        "I can get why they think that. Even up to right before the takedown Conor was tagging Nate. It's actually kind of amazing that those hands that had done such devastation at FW just couldn't get the job done. \n\nNate said that their power was fading but, from the perspective of a viewer I can see why they thought he had that one punch in him.", 
        "No doubt. Hit shit I'm a huge mcgregor fan but I had a giant fucking grin on my face watching nate do what the diaz duo have always done.", 
        "I was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt but then Nate kept hitting him and it became one-sided.", 
        "He got rocked and refused to actually put his hands up to defend.  That was his biggest mistake.", 
        "well, rogen said we have never seen connor tested.", 
        "I was slightly afraid he would last the round, but honestly McGregor looked a lot like Erick Silva did in his first losses in the ufc, real explosive in the 1,2 rounds and then faded, the tempo in the first round was twice as high as the second.", 
        "http://www.fightmetric.com/\n\nConor landed more strikes in the 2nd round. ", 
        "fading isnt about strikes thrown.", 
        "If you've ever seen a diaz fights that's basically how it always goes. Once they smell blood they swarm you with volume. ", 
        "Why didn't he just run tho, let Nate chase him and recover for next round, it's not like he wasn't controlling the fight up to that moment. ", 
        "> Why didn't he just run ...\n\nLike a gazelle?", 
        "Shit yeah. Nobody can say those brothers lack killer instinct.", 
        "It's the Diaz MO. They hit you with those \"soft\" punches, just setting the rhythm and lull you into thinking you can eat these all night long until suddenly they come in with a pop, enough to wobble your equilibrium and then instead of another 1-2 it's a swarm and the volume which were droplets are now a tsunami.", 
        "I like that description ", 
        "But at same time, they are so effective with the 1-2, and can just repeatedly land it without any obvious effort once they hurt the opponent.", 
        "Combine that with their cardio, and yeah it's game over. I don't think there's anyone in the UFC that can hang with the Diaz brothers in terms of endurance. Demetrius Johnson is the only one I can think of off hand that could possibly do it.", 
        "that was so god damn eloquently explained. That was beautiful. ", 
        "I like it - a more subtle kind of rope-a-dope.", 
        "Best visual description i've ever read", 
        "And then you turn into a wrestler, but next thing you know you're getting choked out or having your arm bent in some terrifying way. It's what they do, and Conor played right into it. ", 
        "yeah watch that Diaz vs Gomie fight.  Stand up? gets lit up. Drops the ground and nate is on him like a spider on a wounded fly.  Nowhere safe. \n\n2016 IS DIAZ'S YEAR!", 
        "Conor going for a takedown on Diaz haha What a great turn of events", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Even if the odds where the same, he'd still rather be choked out than knocked out. He's stated a bunch of times that he think after getting KO'd that you should take a long time to recover, which is clearly not something he wants to consider. ", 
        "Seriously, he ended the first round on top and he was dazed so he probably thought it would be the best at the time and it backfired.", 
        "reeked of desperation", 
        "When I saw that I knew it over", 
        "That takedown attempt was the real tapout. The choke was a formality.", 
        "Panic wrestler hahaha ", 
        "bambi legs transforms Lawler into a beast.", 
        "Kongo, too.", 
        "That's the Lawler enrage timer.", 
        "it's a rage bar as in SF.", 
        "lol that guy gets KO'd on his feet like 3 times a fight and still winds up winning\n", 
        "We've said it here many times before.  5th round Lawler is a man possessed.  ", 
        "It's true. Lawler goes to sleep, and the Brawler awakens. ", 
        "Except against Diaz, it led to his first and only KO loss", 
        "Yes when he was younger.\n\nBut even then, he still angrily got up and was like \"Let us continue\"", 
        "It's the original Diaz fight, was fucking great. If anyone hasn't seen Lawler vs Diaz, watch it now!", 
        "I think you're on to something here..", 
        "[Damn, the way Robbie fell was like some shit out of a Rocky movie](http://i.imgur.com/4Cfy3Rh.gif)", 
        "Lawler is a reverse Sampson.  The balder he gets, the more badass of a fighter he is.  He just had too much hair when fighting Diaz.", 
        "Got me out of my seat so fucking quickly.", 
        "I bet Conor lets Artem go. I just predict tees tings.", 
        "Nah Artem obviously isn't a great fighter but he's been in his corner since day 1, he's a true friend to Conor. Now ido portal on the other hand....", 
        "Yeah, I don't think we'll see that pool noodle bullshit on another embedded video.", 
        "Never. If there's anything you can say Conor is sincere about it's loyalty. And dropping Artem would be disloyal. \n\nAnd not just that...dumb after all he did for Artem. Artem wasn't his coach, he didn't make him lose.", 
        "He will/should start bringing in some outside people though.", 
        "john kavanagh didnt make him lose, he just lost, sometimes you just get bested, there isnt always someone to blame", 
        "Ehhh, let's be real. There is a legit problem with SBG, just as much as there is a problem with Edmund at Glendale.", 
        "its no jackson wink, say that much. But... conor has basically picked fights with fighters from every major gym around lmao jackson wink, alpa male, kings MMA, ect.", 
        "Ehhhh... He has a strong left hand and hopes & prays it KO's his opponents within 2 rounds. He sprints to the KO with his gifted hands. He's the prodigy of SBG, not the product of SBG. The products of SBG are sorely lacking", 
        "I wasn't surprised motherfucker", 
        "That was pretty epic. ", 
        "When your training partner is Artem, and you train at SBG... you'll begin to get comfortable dropping 'dem hands.\n\nNate (when discussing his training partners) said it best in the post-fight press conference, that he felt he was the better martial artist.", 
        "I think the main factor in him dropping his hands was that he was tired.", 
        "I honestly thought in the first round he was just taking it nice and slow and easy. Normal for a five round fight, then turn it up in the second. Then he came out in the second looking the same, hands down and looking a little slow, I was really surprised. People are beating on him for losing but holy shit, he went up 2 weight classes and gave it a shot. Not many others would be willing to take those risks. Now lets see Conor vs Frankie and Nate vs Robbie at 200!! ", 
        "Hmm I think that wasn't what he thought was a good gameplan.  \n  \nHe's fighting against Nate, a guy who is known for putting volume and usually needs all arounds to make his case.  \n  \nHe was being explosive man, and that takes a quite a bit. In fact, I loved it when he mentioned the energy efficiency part, cause a lot of people blame a fighter getting tired on their bad cardio, which is wrong sometimes since the fighter themselves just do *energy heavy moves* like Rumble Johnson. When Rumble goes to hit, he puts in more energy than the average light heavyweight, so it's obvious that he'll get more tired as the rounds progress.", 
        "I think the main factor in him dropping his hands was Nate punching him in the face throughout the fight.", 
        "His hands were kind of down even in the first, IIRC. I think part of it was his confidence on his ability to slip punches (which he did well on.. for awhile), and part of it is that he always wants to keep his left hand cocked. Less wind-up/telegraphing for the big bombs he was throwing, esp. the uppercut he was throwing a lot.", 
        "Yes.", 
        "The real problem was not dropping the hands, but rather the footwork. Dominick Cruz has his hands at the waist all the time, and he barely gets touched. You shouldn't stand in the pocket in front of Nate Diaz and match him punch for punch, that is the worse possible strategy to face a Diaz bro. Predictable movement, very little variety, forcing the same shots over and over: basically the opposite of Conor's philosophy. Quite bizarre, tbh. I think he's capable to fight much better than that, but he really has to polish up his defense to be a challenge in the lightweight division.", 
        "EDIT: ~~He didn't look tired until nate rocked him.~~ i'm not sure now, just rewatched.. He could have been tired, he looked like he was in mud compared to his normal self -- Getting smacked a few times might have helped, but Conor might have also gone 110% confidence and decided to conserve his energy by wading forward and slowing foot movement. Post fight he said he wasn't economical with his R1 striking, which might easily mean 'i went full Silva vs Brown'. \n\nThat said, I was 100% thinking Conor was gonna get the win Via KO. Nate doesn't quite move like Cruz, he gets tagged, and Conor hits pretty damn hard. But Nate's chin is a level 7 Mendez and Conor clearly didn't grind enough levels vs this boss.\n\nYes, I haven't slept.", 
        "Conor said in the post fight interview that he wasn't efficient and he spent too much effort in the first round.\n\nI believe him.", 
        "I rewatched the first round and counted approx 20+ full power strikes that he missed, most were hooks or uppercuts. I'm sure missing like that would be tiring but I'm hoping someone who boxes themselves could perhaps confirm that - as I'm sure this is what Conor was referring to.", 
        "Well, I've only been striking for the past year or so, but I can tell you that, for me, it takes a lot out of me if either I make contact OR don't make contact.\n\nI got the impression that Conor was saying he was really putting a lot of effort into each of those punches (whether they landed or not) instead of being efficient with them. And I'm sure missing sucks even more in competition, because you don't even get to psychologically feel like your strike was effective!\n\nAlso, there's one of those 'Guns and Butter' curves that works with striking. I'm making these numbers up on the spot, but to make the point.\n\nA 100% effort punch could punch at a power of 10\nAn 75% punch could punch at a power of 9\nA 50% punch could punch at a power of 7-8\nA 25% punch could punch at a power of 5.\n\nSo putting less effort into many of your strikes (which is what my muay thai coach advocates) is really the goal.\n\nIf I put 20-50% into every strike, and maybe 75%+ into just a few strikes here or there at the middle or end of a combo, I will save a lot of energy, compared to doing a 50% setup strike and a 100% swing to hit my opponent.\n\nInstead, I'm taught to do two 20% strikes, maybe a 50% strike at the end of the combo, or as the second hit of the combo.\n\nBecause (this is as my coach says, not me, I'm just a novice, clearly) when you can throw 20% punches that can land with a power of 5, you spend WAY less energy, and they add up anyway. Your whole body is more relaxed, and you save on muscle fatigue, big time.\n\nI'm taught to almost never put 100% into a strike, for the most part, because it's usually a waste of effort, since if your technique/body mechanics are right, you can get MOST of that power out of it with 50% of that effort.\n\nAgain, this is just what I'm being taught. I'm sure that professionals (like Conor) can manage their own efforts, and everyone does their own thing.", 
        "That's interesting way of looking at striking, and perhaps explains why the Diaz bro's often do so well without throwing so hard. Thinking back to Conors other fights actually it does look like he was throwing much harder in the Diaz fight than the other fights, even the Mendes tko left didn't look as powerful as some of the 1st round left hook/cross's (correct me here).", 
        "I would tend to agree with that, but again, as an extreme novice.\n\nI got the impression that Conor was really trying to make sure he put Diaz's lights out in the first, and couldn't get it done. Really spent a lot of energy to do it.\n\nDiaz brothers seem to do (what my amateur explanation is there) that \"throw at 40-50%, and you can do 80% of the damage\", and they can do it all night long. Very tough to compete with that.", 
        "He said after the fight that he wasn't economical with his energy so I think he admitted himself that he was tired. ", 
        "To quote myself:\n\n> Post fight he said he wasn't economical with his R1 striking, which might easily mean 'i went full Silva vs Brown'.\n\nAKA: what you said.\n", 
        "Shit, I didn't see you say that. Nvm", 
        "No foul homie just messin' a little. You're on point though, definitely agree with that.\n\nI actually think it might have been all the muscle he packed on. He never fought like that before in all respects.", 
        "Nothing like being concussed to knock the wind out of you. I don't think Mcgregor was gassed though.", 
        "so in order to not get k.o'd you have to move like cruz?", 
        "was just being snarky", 
        "he looked very tired before Nate rocked him. The minute before he was rocked he was opening his mouth a lot.\n\nhe have seen a lot of fighters eat this punches from Nate (MJ 3 months ago), and they are never that that that rocked (except Maynard). I think Conor was exhausted", 
        "Nothing like getting hit to make a fighter tired. He bought into his own hype. Most of us would have bet our houses on him winning at the of the 1st round. He was busting Nate up. He then fought like it was won and stood in front of Diaz as if he was no threat.", 
        "As far as the 'stuck in the mud' idk if he was slower but he looked like he was throwing a lot more hooks and uppercuts/shovels/bolos/whatever than straights like he often does. He'd connect with those but Diaz would cover up/roll and rock with them and match him with a straight or jab when conor would still be moving in to close the distance. \n\nI guess he was a bit more stuck in the mud in terms of how much more willing he was to trade and wade in. But maybe he just finally met a guy who wouldn't wither against his shots.", 
        "Punching hard at range has to be draining compared to closer engagements.", 
        "I think the trades happened cause Nate's not an opponent to go to the ground with, and more importantly it seemed he was focusing hitting Nate in the wound over and over again, which worked while it was working. ", 
        "I'm not sure Conor really got a good clean shot to land in the fight.  Nate did a good job of rolling with the punches.  He got tagged a few times, but nothing big enough that it looked like he'd get taken out.  I'm not saying he doesn't have an amazing chin, but I don't think it played as big of a factor as people seem to be saying it did.", 
        "Conor was smart enough to know he wasn't going to win a war of jabs and straight punches with Nate so he was trying to loop his Left hand around Nates jabs. it's called a cross-counter and its a great way to take the jab away from a taller, longer opponent. Nate was very smart though, he started circling to Conors left while throwing check hooks with his right hand and it really messed up Conors rhythm. He did this both in anticipation of Conors hooks and as a response. There were a few times where Conor would graze Nate with that left hand only for Nate to land the long right hook as soon as Conors momentum carried him off balance.", 
        "Yeah, I know what a cross is, I'd have to rewatch the fight but a lot of times it looked like Conor was initiating with a hook rather than countering with one.\n\nNice to learn about the other stuff though, that makes sense.", 
        "The bounce has left his step the further into his career he goes. I've commented on it a few times. Sometimes keeping your feet on the floor and using your hands is the safe bet. This is the reason we don't see crazy fights with tons of spinning shit. In the toughest fight, the basics win it. ", 
        "> more willing he was to trade and wade in\n\nThat's exactly what I meant, you're totally on point too. Also agree that he finally fought a punching bag that hits back -- Major love for the Diaz bro's, but ffs they're always willing to take a shot and I thought it would end up much worse for Nate tonight. I'm grateful to be surprised, it happens less often than we'd like.", 
        "That's what I felt watching. MOVE OUT THE WAY NATE.", 
        "When pool noodles didn't train you for the Stockton slap", 
        "Straight up son", 
        ">When your training partner is Artem, and you train at BMG... you'll begin to get comfortable dropping 'dem hands.\n\nWhat's Artem's excuse? Cause his training partner's Conor McGregor and he still does that shit.", 
        "I think I remember reading somewhere that Artem said he doesn't put his hands up because it offers up no protection. Even if his hands are fully raised then it still wouldn't prevent someone from getting knocked out. That's his theory.\n\nI don't agree with this but, yeah.\n\n[Here is the article!](http://www.the42.ie/artem-lobov-november-2015-2446520-Nov2015/)", 
        "It shows that there is bad coaching actually", 
        "Maybe now his coach will give twitter a rest. ", 
        "You say coaching, I say Conors personality was the player in dropping his hands. If Nate was dominating like Conor was, he would've dropped his hands. It's the way they both think, they are both cocky fighters and do these things because that is just the way they are, I don't think coaching has any role in it.", 
        "I don't think Nate Diaz is a cocky fighter at all. What he does in the Octagon serves a purpose.", 
        "He dropped his hands because he got stung badly and wanted to play it off, that's what fighters always do. He got outclassed big time and that's it.", 
        "Nate has the length to do it, he also stands sideways with his shoulder up and can roll with the punches ", 
        "Listen to Conor's corner in between 1st and 2nd. Very ", 
        "I agree, the only thing I want to say that is unrelated, is I wish Nate went ape shit with the shit talking in fight. Especially once he rocked Conor.\n\nNot sure why your post made that come to mind.", 
        "He did. He also threw a shit load of Stockton Slaps. ", 
        "I didn't see much, must have just missed it", 
        "If he's lucky maybe Nate will teach him how to shoulder roll on a Sunday morning.", 
        "Haha", 
        "That definitely plays a part.. But I find it suspicious that everyone in the UFC out of SBG seems to have a hand waving/dropping problem.\n\nWhy does Artem do it? And also, why does Nelson semi-do it? \n\n(I will look through my archive and give you references)", 
        "Should we get worried for Makwan?", 
        "Actually, maybe. o.O", 
        "I think it's a mind game tendency but artem is just... Artem. \n\nConor's hands were low towards the end but that's because he got rocked and didn't back away then took a combo. ", 
        "**It is to prevent takedowns.** It's nothing about his personality being cocky or disrespectful of his opponents. Keeping their hands down makes it easier to sprawl and control a shooting opponent. \n\nYou also notice how many uppercuts he was throwing, way more than any previous fights. He was basically warning Nate that if you shoot for a takedown, you will be knocked out. Shows the volume of respect he has for Diaz's level of BJJ.\n\nGunni can afford to risk being taken down because he is a high-level BJJ practitioner (brown belt iirc).", 
        "Still awaiting those references....", 
        "Because \"keeping your hands up\" is nowhere near as important as MMA fans seem to think it is.  Holly Holm, Carlos Condit, Jon Jones (hell, most good Jackson/Wink fighters) use footwork as their main and almost only defensive system, rarely use their hands to protect their face, and tend to keep their head straight up.  Do you think they're poorly coached?", 
        "\"Keep your hands up\" is shit people say when they have no idea about fighting and have never trained.", 
        "...keep your hands up is the first thing they tell you in any form of striking training", 
        "Yeah, because its essential for beginners.  Many of the best strikers in the world fight with their hands down half the time.\n\nI'm not even discussing the merit of fighting with a high guard, but \"should have kept his hands up\" is what people say when they dont know what theyre talking about - and it certainly wasnt the reason Conor got rocked.", 
        "Half true, it has some merit. I also listen to Heavy Hands but you should go back and relisten to that episode. 1st or 2nd episode with Luis Monda IIRC. ", 
        "Don't think I've heard the ep you're talking about, might go have a listen.", 
        "As for Gunni, I'll go out on a leg here and say it's to do with his Karate background. As for Artem, he's just keeping it flowy.", 
        ">...out on a limb", 
        "Like Silva he's going out on a leg. ", 
        "artems excuse is he tries to play a boxing game with no diversity while having a 66 inch T rex reach", 
        "LOL", 
        "Conor's wrists looked strong though ", 
        "Lots of hours playing touch butt in the park with that dork. ", 
        "I dunno, his nervous system was still too fearful to hit Diaz with enough strength to knock him down.", 
        "real flowy", 
        "Jesus, when are people going to stop beating this joke into the ground", 
        "i agree man\n", 
        "You'd be surprised", 
        "I never realized how much Nate lunges when he throws.  Look at his feet.  Every punch, he's moving 6-12\" forward.  I can imagine being on the receiving end.  \"Oh Im good, Im out of ranBLRRRRRRRAGGAH\"", 
        "He played the range game perfectly this fight. ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/MVPdV4a.gifv\n\nEdit: FOOK ME GOLD, at least someone gave me a little back. Thanks stranger.", 
        "Won't play. Nexus 7 Chrome. :(", 
        "r/retiredgifs", 
        "/r/retiredgif", 
        "/retiredgif", 
        "holy shit hahaahaha . perfection", 
        "Never was a more appropriate gif used.", 
        "Ahahaha, too perfect. Smooth sailing all the way to the top, then tries jumping up but it all goes wrong.", 
        "lol", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/yz5KKum.jpg", 
        "Me on the right. ", 
        " Holy shit \n\nThis is the Holy grail of gifs for tonight ", 
        "Nah, it's the pot of gold.", 
        "[Here](http://imgur.com/4KmWFTs)", 
        "http://i1307.photobucket.com/albums/s598/jeicex/boat%20gif_zpsxuqetu6m.gif", 
        "I'm dying right now. ", 
        "It gets better with every loop", 
        "and Paige is still hot even when it's mostly not her and she's making faces.", 
        "One upvote is simply not enough for this masterpiece ", 
        "lmao is that joe on board too? ", 
        "holy fucking shit", 
        "Nope! this is!", 
        "Poor little Sage, he's down but not out", 
        "These gifs have me laughing so hard I'm drooling", 
        "lshd", 
        "You spent way too much time and effort into getting the perfect expressions for each moment on that gif.\n\nWell done.", 
        "O_O\n\nJoe Rogan the whole time", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Don't lie. You're not sorry.", 
        "Ronda's face getting progressively more beat up was amazing haha", 
        "Rogans face change is amazing", 
        "and I thought that the original video of that couldn't get any funnier. well played ", 
        "What's the original please", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/CwWzGmJ.gif", 
        "Never knew why this vid is considered funny. More scary if anything", 
        "It's hilarious considering the context but the original is great just how hard they all eat it", 
        "That's fair. But I'm all aboard the play stupid games win stupid prizes boat ", 
        "Haha holy shit Ronda", 
        "Good job Conor doesn't have to take any of those Robbie Lawler punches.", 
        "Nate saved his life tonight.", 
        "thats not good for your head....nah", 
        "some link i read earlier said it perfectly, a fight with Robbie Lawler would take years off McGregors life.", 
        "Yeah about 50", 
        "Especially after talking a lot of shit during the media tour as usual, could you imagine a pissed off Lawler coming for your head holy shit", 
        "Id pray we are in a sanctioned event so I could immediately tap and stop the fight. ", 
        "I would just give him the head", 
        "I can imagine it, it would go roughly like this\n\nhttp://49.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m6vptwoF951ry1rm7o1_250.gif", 
        "Oh, good lord.\n\nI've never seen that gif before.\n\nBrutal.", 
        "Three other Lawler gifs if you haven't seen them\n\nhttp://i54.tinypic.com/33kysy9.jpg\n\nhttp://img.photobucket.com/albums/v391/zombi_king/nolawler.gif\n\nhttp://giant.gfycat.com/ObedientGleefulLaughingthrush.gif\n\n\n... I really want to see a rematch\n", 
        "Thank god he got rid of that hair.", 
        "Wow ref, a little late on that one", 
        "Damn that last one seemed so unnecessary though ", 
        "Ref wasn't doing anything, a fighter can't stop the fight. Don't want a Silva/Bisping situation. ", 
        "Yep he almost killed him. ", 
        "I don't follow MMA outside of highlights- was there any repercussions for it?", 
        "No it was a legal blow. The ref hadn't stepped in. Matt Sera just said that after the fight his doctors told him he almost died. Just because its legal doesn't mean it can't fuck you up. ", 
        "Ya I can see that. Was the ref too slow to step in or just one of those things that you can't prevent? I mean you can tell he was done but the ref clearly hadn't stopped it yet. ", 
        "yea the Ref fucked up horribly there. He should've been on the opposite side and right up in their business when he sees someone hurt that bad. ", 
        "trigg did an interview about that fight and said he nearly died, and he didn't mean metaphorically.", 
        "5th round Lawler in the first round = Opponent fucked", 
        "I really doubt he would of made it to the fifth round though.", 
        "It wouldn't surprise me if he was out in his feet, he didn't look the same after taking that shot. Luke Thomas often goes on about how many high profile fighters have told him off record that they take shots and don't remember at all what happened after, they just fight on auto pilot in a sense.", 
        "Some get to the backroom and don't know what's going on.", 
        "I dont think he was out he was just tired from winging power punches and wheel kicks.  He keeps talking about energy efficiency for a reason.\n\nIts gotta be a pretty terrifying feeling when youre having a relatively close fight with a nate but you realize that the more you feel yourself fading the more nate pours it on.", 
        "He actually gives a pretty good break down of what happened on the ground in the post press. So I'm not sure he was rocked to that extent. Unless it was just from watching the replay.", 
        "He was definitely dazed. The rest of the fight after that he definitely wasn't all there. And then he kept eating punches so he couldn't recover. Good shit", 
        "To me it was the fact he failed to respond to Nate's taunt. After Nate lands the shot he does the typical Diaz arms out taunt. McGregor just look dazed. That's when Nate starts to swarm more punches. ", 
        "Yeah he did very un-conor things after he got rocked. \n\nShooting for a takedown and giving his back for example", 
        "He gave his back because he knew he was done. Took the sub over the KO. It's why he tapped instantly.", 
        "I mean he broke down what happened step by step leading to the finish at the presser. He definitely had some bearings.", 
        "That first shot through his decision making out the window. Didn't he say in the presser something about 'panic mode'? He was referencing Nate's chin from what I saw but the true 'oh shit' survival came from that crack.\n\nWhat's interesting is, even with all the touch butt in the park and pool noodling, we saw the movement drop off from Conor very soon. Before the hand dropping, just deciding to stand and trade with a *Diaz* is a tough decision because it's a cold day in hell when you outwork one.\n\nI'd love to know how he felt about having to expend so much energy trying to fight through and close distance on Nate. It *had* to have been more taxing than he was expecting, pool noodle and all.\n\nCall me a dreamer but can we get Conor to spend some time for Cruz? I want the solution to be for him to get **weirder**. Double down on the self belief and the crazy martial arts. We saw a weird headhunting Conor today and he managed to gas himself.\n\nBring back Playful Conor!", 
        "I'm a casual observer and have to ask, wtf is touch butt and pool noodling?", 
        "His \"movement coach\" had him doing drills where he basically flailed around while Ido(said coach) was waving and hitting him with a pool noodle as part of his training for the fight.\n\nThe \"touch butt\" part was Nate trying to say \"grab ass(which is a common term for fuck all, or not doing shit)\" but he is socially awkward and possibly a bit punch drunk after all these years.", 
        "ah ok, thanks. I hadn't heard any of that so I was completely confused. I thought I was out of the loop on some important technique lingo. lol", 
        "He's always been a headhunter, he was just fighting much smaller competition before, so he could get away with it. ", 
        "Those punches when Nate was in full mount and bounced his head off the canvas were the real end, it was autopilot survival mode that made him give up his back.", 
        "You're ignoring Nate's bjj work and implying that moment was more impactful than the actual shot that stopped Conor? The wobble is always going to be more important, the rest was a formality. If Conor had backed up then maybe he could have recovered and waited out the round but he took another combo and was really fucked.\n\nHis back was forced because of the way Nate positioned his arm and leg, the defense is to roll the way he did but he  didn't have the presence of mind to continue defending properly and his neck was open. ", 
        "No, just that the after the wobble he was cognizant enough to shoot to at the very least close the distance and try to regain, but like you say after mount gnp, Conor did not have presence of mind period and was going through the motions Nate guided.\n\nGuess, he could have been out on his feet, but I'm saying he was really out when his head was bounced off the canvas.\n", 
        "Yeah, fair. He looked hazy up the point was my point. ", 
        "You could tell by just looking at his eyes that he was fucked", 
        "You literally watched the smirk drop off his face after the \"lucky\" left. Couldn't regain his feet and no man on earth wants to be caught in that position with Diaz.", 
        "Yeah, you could literally see the instant when his brain went fuzzy. His footwork, speed and power went out the window the second that left hand shot hit him flush on the chin. A lesser mam would've been knocked down/out by that shot but Conors chin kept him on his feet. The fight was over as soon as that shot landed.", 
        "> A lesser mam would've been knocked down/out by that shot but Conors chin kept him on his feet. \n\nNate hasnt TKO with a single punch anyone (his only near miss was Maynard). We have seen a lot of fighters eat his punches, like MJ 3 months ago.\n\n", 
        "Not having a lot of tko's isn't a cause and effect with not having power. \n\nConor has a good chin for sure you just don't see that many people taking full power shots from Diaz honestly he usually doesn't load up.", 
        "Agreed, Nate usually peppers you with medium shots until they add up. That said, that punch landed flush on the chin of Mcgregor and you saw the light in his eyes dim out... He seemed out on his feet for a bit after that punch. As Nate said, he'd have more knockouts if guys didn't try to wrestle him after getting peppered til they can't take it no more.", 
        "The change in demeanor between how he looked right before that 1-2 landed and then right after was really weird. Not just in his legs, his whole face sorta relaxes and goes wonky. Nothing really new in this sport or anything, and I was rooting for Nate, but it's almost like that straight made his whole body/mind forget the confidence he normally exudes. Just strange as hell to see someone like Conor rocked for the first time.", 
        "Deer in the headlights look", 
        "He suffered what a lot of fighters call a \"hard-reset\".  Basically, you black out momentarily, stop feeling pain and hear a loud crack.  Your muscles also fail to respond to anything but gross motor skills and respond very poorly towards strength requirements.\n\nLesser, more inexperienced fighters will try to shake it off like Conor did but to no avail.  More experienced fighters with hide it under the guise of being hyper-defensive until they are recovered.", 
        "why the loud crack?", 
        "It can be a crack or a ringing sound when you black out its like you're deaf then everything comes back. Had both the crack came with sound feeling like someone was fucking with the volume up and down and the ringing like getting cotton balls in your ears. ", 
        "Probably the getting hit really hard in the face part \n\n(Jk)", 
        "the zone", 
        "My coach told me he once started checking his pockets to make sure he hadn't dropped his wallet and keys.\n\nThen he realized he was wearing gloves, he didn't have pockets, and that he was standing in the ring and a guy was bearing down on him to finish the job.", 
        "Yup!\n\nVery much like having a lucid dream.  Except you're just kind of like \"wtf where are all these bright lights coming from\" as your head reels back from another solid shot.", 
        "Basically, even the replay they showed had it. Nate saw it and...you don't want to be that vulnerable with him.", 
        "He smiled. He knew he had it. I can't imagine how happy Nate was when Conor attempted the takedown. ", 
        "Probably exactly how Werdum felt when Cain tried to take him down.", 
        "The fight was over before the takedown. Conor was just deciding whether he wanted to be kod or choked out. I think he thought there was a chance he could hold Nate off on the ground for a bit more time than he could stop a Ko/tko.\n\nIt was a move of desperation, so I won't blame him.", 
        "Hmm, best explanation I've heard yet. ", 
        "While that's definitely possible I would doubt he had the presence of mind after getting scrambled to decide this. ", 
        "I don't think it required any presence of mind at all (I don't actually think he decided to get choked out as opposed to ko'd, I was just using that as a figure of speech), he was about to get knocked out and his reaction as an MMA fighter was to try and get the fight on the ground, slow it down and weather the storm until the end of the round.\n\nUnfortunately for Conor Nate is a complete mismatch for him on the ground. But the fight was ending either way. It was a desperate move from a desperate man.", 
        "I see, I thought you were saying that literally.\n\nFor sure my biggest fear was the ground but it was over when they were standing. \n\nI was hoping he would back away when he took that hard hit and try to weather against the fence and wait out the round but he took another combo and staggered back. \n\nFirst round he looked excellent but its never over especially against Diaz. Conor definitely wasn't as bouncy and quick as his usual self so I was pretty worried from the start. Also LOL at people saying Nate was handpicked for Conor to defeat, IDK anyone that thinks he's an easy fight especially when you have less reach/height/experience.", 
        "Agree with every point you made.\n\nI'm just hyped to see what Conor does next. Still a fair few options, and they are all fascinating.", 
        "He had ended the first round on the ground as well and on top so that may have been his instinct to hold out on the ground until the round ended.", 
        "Yeah pretty much. Honestly it was the right decision, he just couldn't survive a minute on the ground like that against Diaz who has awesome BJJ.\n\nBut he probably had more of a chance Diaz simply ran out of time on the ground then standing up.", 
        "If he knew he was going to lose, it's better for the health to lose via sub than KO or TKO. He will have been concussed from this and I want him to be safe with his return.", 
        "While that's definitely true I was just saying that as a figure of speech. Ultimately he knew he was going down by KO if he stayed on his feet, so instead he took it to the ground.\n\nIt is probably usually the right decision, but with a minute to go, dazed, against a guy with a way better ground game, there was only one way it was ending.", 
        "Yeah it looked like he knew he was lights out if he stayed on his feet and he just hoped he could hold off on the ground for the round to end. ", 
        "I think Conor fell into that trap with the Diaz brothers where they spend most of the fight just throwing light punches and their opponent gets comfortable trading with them because they don't really hurt. But when the Diaz's see an opportunity to throw hard, they take it and their opponent is thrown off, both by surprise and accumulation of previous punches.", 
        "That's exactly what happened. Also Conor underestimated Nate's reach. You could see during the face offs that Nate has ridiculously long arms, and he keeps a low stance when getting ready to punch. It looks like you're out of range but then he lunges forward a good extra 6-12 inches and catches people. ", 
        "Yeap, that's also how he lures them in. Since he's so tall he can bend forward to bait them to charge in but leans/steps back when they do with a right hook ready to counter.", 
        "When a fighter shows a great chin or complete dominance, I can't quite picture them getting hurt. When they do get wobbled, it's always a little surreal. Joe Rogan's \"OOHH!!\" completely encapsulates my reaction. Happened with Anderson, Conor, and Ronda to a lesser extent(RR did show she can take a punch in the McMann fight). No matter who you are, you will go down when hit on the sweet spot.", 
        "Uhh Mcgregor has a better chin than Conor..", 
        "Yeah very odd to see a dazed Conor. ", 
        "Did you notice how amazed Rogan sounded throughout the whole thing (the end) there? I feel like he was kinda with you. He just couldn't believe that, not only was Conor getting put away, it was happening after Holly also got finished when it looked like both of them were heading to other things.", 
        "If you've ever listened to a Fight Companion, Rogan sounds surprised whenever something happens. He just loves the sport so much.", 
        "I just realised I can't remember a damned word Rogan said. I was totally captivated by the fight. I think that's the first time that's happened.", 
        "He really didn't say much I noticed when I watched it again today.  It was like he was just a spectator for a good portion of the fight.", 
        "Yea from the point he got rocked I didn't hear a word of commentary", 
        "Didn't take enough alpha brain", 
        "True that, whole place I was at was too busy going nuts.", 
        "I'm about 20 minutes outside of Stockton and the bar I was at went fucking crazy when Nate rocked him and even crazier when he submitted Conor. I had about 3 beers spilled on me because everyone jumped out of their seats at the same time and I wasn't even mad about it. A bunch of people walked out of the bar to smoke after the fight and the entire crowd was chanting Stockton it was pretty surreal.", 
        "I can't imagine being near his home town, place was insane in Sydney haha ", 
        "Four guys I was with hate the Diaz brothers, and the one guy that was on my side rooting for Nate lost hope after round 1. It was freaking sweet being the only guy getting hyped up while everyone else just sat in silence.", 
        "You must be a new fan. A Diaz ain't fightin' till he bleedin'", 
        "Uh, no, I was the only one still rooting with hope because I've seen the Diaz brothers.", 
        "Sorry, I meant \"He\" not \"You\"", 
        "It's a thing that's said over and over about the Diaz brothers, but they don't hurt until they do. And then it's too late. Really impressed by Nate tonight. A lot of grit. We know Conor hits hard. ", 
        "I think that's one of the reasons Conor continued to fight with his hands down. You could tell he thought he could eat the shots like he usually does, but Nate's power ground him down pretty quick.", 
        " 11 day Diaz was about to tko conor in the 2nd round and he did a desperate shot to save face. \n\ncant believe this dude called out robbie lawler", 
        "It's like Conor didn't train for a five round fight :( Gassed after the first round, really.", 
        "He was way too cocky in the first, throwing bombs.", 
        "It didn't help Conor was swinging hard most of the round. He said he was going to finish in the first round, and I think he over-exerted to try and make that claim come true. That and Nate's shots made it really hard to keep up.", 
        "He spent a ton of energy trying to knock Nate out in the first. Said himself that he didn't conserve his energy well. Fucking Diazes, yo - they can take punches and cardio for days", 
        "He didn't gas, he got rocked.", 
        "Conor was controlling the fight up until this point. Just before this exchange Conor successfully lands, then attempts a failed spinning back kick, steps back and takes a really deep breath. His feet were flatter than I've ever seen them, no spring in his step. He was gassing.", 
        "He was gassing out that's why he got rocked in the first place. Just watch previous fights at 145. He was way more illusive, unpredicatble and threw more veristilite kicks and punches. He didn't realise how much power he would actually have to use to reach nate, since he was fighting with opponnents with much lesser of a reach then nate's. That uses alot of power, also he went 10 kilos up which is alot. He was training with midget artem and Croatian dude Luka Jelicic who has a score of 6/2. Basically no sparing partners to prepare him for a level of a fighter and boxer nate is, he had to use so much energy to push forward", 
        "Be honest, he looked tired going into the second.  Took Diaz for granted.  He didn't get rocked in the first.  Compare this to how he came out in the second against Max and Siver.", 
        "I'm rewatching it again right now, Conors looking a little slow early in the 2nd way before Nate really starts teeing off on him\n", 
        "he was literally boxing with a triathlete. how the fuck he thought he'd be able to keep up with the guy holding the standing record for most strikes in a 3 round fight, I will never know.", 
        "Shocked me how many people thought DIAZ would fade.", 
        "Wait Diaz can fade?  I think id believe more in the Kraken than a Diaz fading", 
        "He faded hard during the RDA. ", 
        "True, but he faded from his legs being demolished, not because of his gas tank.", 
        "never underestimate the depths of human stupidity.", 
        "Of course, no doubt about that. But he was definitely not as flowy or explosive leading up to that final exchange where Nate rocked him..", 
        "Well he fought someone who has a deep understanding of boxing. Maybe he should learn it instead of playing touch butt in the park with that dork. ", 
        "Because he believed his own shit.", 
        "because he missed a lot, shadowboxing is exhausting. ", 
        "Especially when half of his punches looked like haymakers that a drunk guy throws at a boxing bag. ", 
        "Especially when you're trying to close on a rangey opponent.", 
        "a bit of both, he wouldnt shut up about how he gassed in all the post fight interviews", 
        ">can't believe this dude thinks he's PFP numbers 1-8\n\n", 
        "11 day Diaz > full belly Conor ", 
        "11dayDiaz > SteakfedConor", 
        "Diaz is the man, but Conor did look in fucking shape and beastmode at 170.. hes going to be a handful at 155.", 
        "Pretty funny considering how he talked about how people turned into panic wrestlers when they got hit. \n\nHe was totally gonna get knocked out, I think he did what Rogan accused Lyoto of doing in his Rockhold fight by just letting the choke happen instead of having a boxer pound him into oblivion.", 
        "You say that like you should get knocked out instead lol.\n\nIt wasn't a free choke either, Conor was dazed and Nate moved fast with good positioning. ", 
        "Also was his best chance to get out the round alive. ", 
        "It really is the smarter choice - possibly career extending.", 
        "That's exactly what happened. He gave no defense against the transition to mount, and then gave his back and got flattened with no resistance. ", 
        "He took a few big ground and pound shots too, just to seal the deal\n", 
        "On the other hand, we knew Nate was way better than Conor on the ground, right?  Like legit competitive Black Belt vs Purple? Belt type stuff.  There are times when you're rolling when a guy will slice through to mount like that and there's literally nothing you can do to stop it because of the difference in levels.  Nate's hitting tighter windows on all his moves and transitions on the ground, and unless Conor can hit some of those windows as well he is not going to be able to defend.\n\nI wouldn't say he gave up on the ground, just that he couldn't do much.  If you remember he offered little against Mendes on the ground too.  We already knew that Nate was probably going to slice through him like butter once it hit the mat.", 
        "I'm not sure Connor has defense for these transitions against a world class jits guy. ", 
        "At that stage I thought he was a goner already, trying to resist a KO.  Looked wobbly as fuck.", 
        "Completely true, a loss by submission is a better than a loss by TKO/KO... \n\n", 
        "It's the smart move honestly, less brain damage", 
        "I think him shooting was him giving up.  Like Sage the the tap out.", 
        "More like avoiding the knockout. It's pretty common in mma to hold on to your opponent until you regain composure after a hard shot", 
        "I saw it as two things with the same outcome. He was gonna get KO'd/TKO'd, which, if we're being honest would put him out for a long time (if he wanted his health back), so his options were limited to shooting, to either gain composure or lose whilst taking less damage than necessary.", 
        "He was likely out on his feet but it is pretty normal for fighters to shoot when hurt to regain composure.", 
        "Right. He's a striker, Nate beating him on the feet looks bad. At least this way the statistics can be a bit misleading and he can talk about working in his BJJ", 
        "It's a logical instinct though. Four clean shots to the head. Only a crazy man would keep things standing.", 
        "Robbie is that man", 
        "Right, I don't think he was a coward for shooting it's a natural instinct when hurt.", 
        "yep, for sure.  I got up and started screaming for the finish at this moment. ", 
        "Stood up, threw my hat and was screaming for the finish as well. ", 
        "Love how conor still did his shrug like, that all you got? And could barely lift his arms", 
        "Definitely was a shrug to say \"Aight den Nate good shot that hurt \"\n\n", 
        "That's a thing you learn in boxing. When someone smiles or shrugs after a hit 99/100 times the hit hurt them.", 
        "That and the smile he gave Nate after he took one of Nate's hardest shots to the face in the first round are two of the most Irish Fighter Stereotype things I've ever seen.", 
        "He's literally Brad Pitt's character from Snatch.", 
        "That's what hurt fighters usually do. They smile.", 
        "Yes and no, it's ambiguous at times.", 
        "To me it looked like \"not bad.... I guess this is how I lose\"", 
        "That's what we were saying at my buddy's place. I thought he was definitely acknowledging the good shots that landed", 
        "\"so it has come to this\"", 
        "\"Ah fuck, I can't believe you've done this.\" - Conor McGregor ", 
        "You guys make him sound like a dying River City Ransom boss.", 
        "\"Barf!\" -- Conor McGregor ", 
        "To me it looked like a \"Alright, ya caught me\" shrug, and he definitely did.", 
        "Ironic Conor got caught because he left his chin out in the open throwing the left uppercut he was so sure would finish Nate.\n\nRe watch the fight. Conor got stuck in routine. He kept throwing uppercut after uppercut. ", 
        "A lot of them landed but it turns out its harder to knock out a welter weight than a father weight", 
        "Harder to knock out a Diaz anyways, I don't think there's anyone else under 170 that would have taken those punches...", 
        "Seriously. I think nates reach also kept some of the power in conors punches from connecting also", 
        "Oh he took Conor's best shots.\n\nSo the blueprint of how to beat Conor is out there now which is good news for the other fighters he might face.\n\nThe bad news is it involves taking multiple huge shots flush without being knocked or going on the defensive.", 
        "Lightweight* Nate hasn't fought at welterweight for a while", 
        "He fought at welter weight tonight.", 
        "So did Conor, and that's his natural weight. Diaz said it, Conor got hyped by beating on midgets.", 
        "It was lightweight without the cut, they would have been pretty much the same weight come fight night. A real welterweight is 190 something in the cage.", 
        "You mean harder to knock out a lightweight than featherweight.  Nate fights in the lightweight division, he is ranked #5 in the division, they simply fought at 170 to avoid having to cut down to 155.  \n\nI wish people would stop saying Conor fought a welterweight.  ", 
        "To be fair Nate is a lightweight. The fight was only at 170 because it was short notice for Nate.", 
        "Do you have to have a dadbod to fight at father weight?", 
        "roynelson.jpg", 
        "It is like he changed his whole fighting style for the worst.", 
        "Wasnt he doing that because it was working? I'll have to rewatch", 
        "And those kicks he kept going on about.  I actually thought he should have mixed it up with low front kicks to the knee and bicycle kicks he used against Max.  They were great for feinting and closing the distance.", 
        "No these mistakes were always there but he fights at 145 and walks in the cage much heavier and dwarfs his opponents. Conor has a poor understanding of boxing and it was exposed tonight because Nate is light years ahead of him. Nate Found his range late in the first and just kept using the jab and double jab to set up power punches. Once he was hitting him with the cross consistently it was only a matter of time. ", 
        "That's because the uppercut was his gameplan... you seem to forget Conor landed a ton of shots on Nate, even at the start of round 2. It's just that Nate's were landing cleaner and he had more power as the bigger guy.", 
        "He actually fought very differently this fight. Probably because Nate is south paw and covers his body well. Notice he doesn't throw a single body kick the whole damned fight? When have we ever seen Conor head hunt for 2 rounds and never do any body work?", 
        "I think Connor underestimated the height disadvantage.  He kept trying to go high with kicks and ended up short each time.", 
        "Only against midgets\n\nConor said in the press conference that his wheel kicks all missed\n\nNate's range would negate Conor's body kicks\n", 
        "He can do that at 145 cause he had a size advantage. Conor's only shot tonight was a KO early and he knew it. ", 
        "He certainly fought that way, for a while I was pretty certain Nate would get taken out. Love how things can change instantly in fight sports.", 
        "In retrospect, he should have studied the Diaz bros and realized that is never the gameplan against them. Nobody just KOs Nate or Nick, let alone early. They relish in the thought people would be crazy enough to try that on them.", 
        "I think it was the right plan. There's no way you are winning a 5 round stand up war against the Diaz bros because they just get better as the fight goes on. It's either you decision them with you're takedowns and technical stand up, which there's absolutely no way Conor is taking Nate down. Or you just go full blast before they can get their rhythm. Conor landed some absolutely nasty shots on Nate but he still didn't go down, dude has an iron chin. I feel like Nate is probably one of Conor's worst match-ups.", 
        "Well,  I think he believed that his left hand that knocks out 145ers was powerful enough to take out a 155 or 170lb fighter. I think he drastically overestimated the power in his left while moving up in weight. ", 
        "Nates side on stance sort of negate straight kicks tho. He had some sucess with knee stomps, but the snap kicks werent there.", 
        "Yeah totally. I've rewatched 3 times now and Conor has to massively adjust his game to compensate for Nate's size and side on stance.\n\nI think the real hero of the night is Nate's chin though. Holy mother of Christ Conor threw absolutely everything he could at him and he kept coming forward. People are saying that Conor would have nothing for Cerrone or RDA but man I don't think so. I don't think either of them would take the damage Nate just took. \n\nI'd love to see RDA and Nate again. He was sick last time they fought right?", 
        "I don't think it was the chin, I think it was his movement. Conor's shots never landed super clean, Nate was always evading.", 
        "Nate got drilled quite a few times. Connor would've KO'd about 90% of the fighters at 155 with those shots. ", 
        "Completely disagree. He was caught cleanly multiple times. ", 
        "He caught a couple big overhand left hooks too.", 
        "Ye I remember seeing an uppercut land on Diaz, and his head moved significantly. Maybe a 170ish Conor hasnt got the punching power, or Diaz has a freaky chin. Either way, he doesn't beat Lawler", 
        "We'd have to see Conor fight at 170 again to determine if he has punching power there because Diaz has a fucking diamond chin, he can just absorb hit after hit like it doesn't even matter to him. Even during the post fight interview with Dom and Frankie you could see how fucked up Nate's face was and that's from a single round of absorbing hits, if he hadn't rocked Conor in the second we might have a seen another Mitrione-esque looking face. I'm a Diaz fan so I'm very happy with the result but I was nervous as fuck for Nate in the first.", 
        "> Either way, he doesn't beat Lawler\n\nIf by some miracle he does beat Lawler, Nick kills him.", 
        "I think it's a bit of both. Nates only been stopped with strikes once and that was a headkick. ", 
        "And i feel Cerrone/RDA would be a lot more hittable and Conor would not gas as easy fighting those (In terms of throwing punches). Head hunting a guy that long looked exhausting. I wouldn't rule Conor out fighting against RDA, i still think he would have a good chance. Styles make fights remember.", 
        "> Conor would not gas as easy fighting those \n\nI believe Conor gassed primarily because of his extra weight. It will be interesting to see how his endurance is at 155. ", 
        "Possibly, i personally think it was because he was trying to land huge bombs on a taller fighter, maybe a combination of both.", 
        "> Styles make fights remember.\n\nYou know what this fight weirdly makes me want to see? Diaz vs. Aldo.", 
        "Aldo's leg kicks on Nates lead leg Vs Nates boxing, it certainly would be interesting.", 
        "Yeah. Missing is hard. RDA doesn't have the head movement or boxing of Nate. I hope this doesn't put Conor or the UFC off going after 155 belt again. I think Nate was a terrible matchup for him. ", 
        "I expected Conor to work the body shots more and pace himself with straight instead of bombs. He looked dangerous in round 1 but it just seemed like it was a \"i need to ko him first round or i lose\" for some reason, it was very strange. I still think Conor can beat RDA though, hard fight for Conor but i believe.", 
        "Hitting straights on a guy with a huge reach advantage is extremely hard.", 
        "Maybe trying to fulfil the arrogant prediction of a first round uppercut rather than thoughts of losing. I don't think Conner thought about losing until Nate was on top of him.", 
        "Exactly this! The whole \"Mystic Mac\" calling his shots bullshit was his own undoing.", 
        "RDA has a MUCH better double leg rush and single leg whip that would possibly negate this aspect anyway. Nate had to absorb those shots because his style and athleticism just isn't good enough to get it to the ground consistently.", 
        "It was pretty clear that Conor would get wobbled with his fighting style one day. Didn't expect it to happen so soon to be honest.", 
        "I think Conor's chin could take the shots at 45 but clearly not at 170", 
        "He always did roll with/narrowly slip a lot of shots. You can only do that successfully against a lower tier of strikers than Diaz.", 
        "Or basically against people with a shorter reach.", 
        "any chance you can get the replay angle where it shows mcgregor stunned and stumbling back a bit, and in the corner of the camera you can see nate smiling a bit?", 
        "Just rewatched the fight. Conor won the first comfortably and poured it on early in the 2nd but all the momentum changed from 3:10 onwards in the 2nd. Conor had just finished unloading combinations & a failed spinning back kick, then stepped back taking deep breaths (you could tell in his body language he was in deep deep waters). Nate instantly looks like he recognizes it and takes control with a Stockton slap", 
        "Not sure how I feel about the first. Conor definitely had stronger punches, but Nate landed more of his punches. He is a slap boxer, his punches don't carry much weight to them but he landed a lot more than McGregor did. ", 
        "Conor only outlanded Nate by like 5 or 6 bunches in the first, and I'd argue most of Nate's landed way cleaner. ", 
        "But Nate didn't land as many hard shots. Conor landed absolute bombs. I mean look at Nate's face.", 
        "The way a fighter looks after a round is a poor indicator of how hurt they are. Diaz has a lot of scar tissue so he gets cuts easily, so you can't judge how much damage he took by just looking at him. \n\nI'd say Diaz won the first. Conor relies heavily on his counter game and he was clearly struggling with Nate's reach. McGregor is used to being the taller opponent and relying on his usually longer reach, but it clearly wasn't working in this fight. ", 
        "You are absolutely insane if you think Diaz won the first. ", 
        "Maybe McGregor won on points, I don't know. I'd have to rewatch it, but watching it live I felt like after the first round McGregor was clearly struggling with a taller fighter and it was only a matter of time when Nate cracked him hard enough with the 1-2. His counters fell short and kept hitting air and he's usually much more precise than that.", 
        "dude you're fucking high if you think diaz won the first in any way. mcregor tooled him up bad. How fucking delusional can you be? ", 
        "Diaz brothers bleed so easily. The state of someones face is not really an indication of how hard the blows here. All comes down to scare tissue.", 
        "He got a take down too in the first. ", 
        "Both Diaz brothers bleed if you glare at them. Nick just had surgery awhile ago to try and do something about the scar tissue build-up. Looks and perceived damage mean very, very little. \n\nI might give Conor the first by a razor thin margin, but it's not like it was an 8-10 round.", 
        "Wasn't just a cut though, post fight Nate was swollen, black and blue. ", 
        "http://imgur.com/a40Hoe2\n\nConor in Round 2.", 
        "Excellent work, OP. I knew the Stockton Slap was the precursor to McGregor's imminent demise.", 
        "I could watch that gif all day. The slap by Diaz to test the reaction time. The quick one-two with a hop back to draw Conor in and then the realization that Conor was slow and not firing back, he throws his arms out as if to say its on now. Those formerly lighter taps turn into crisps strikes down the middle, the slight changes of angle to burn through Conor's weak head and shoulder movement defense.", 
        "Nate has the best one two combo in MMA", 
        "they're never telegraphed, ever. they just fly out in a perfect straight line", 
        "its weird but i like connor more after this loss.... thought he would have a tantrum but he was classy asf ", 
        "Conor is always classy post-fight. He didn't even make it out of the octagon after beating Aldo before he sung his praises.", 
        "He always peppers that praise with jabs and shit talk. I'm always confused that people pick through what he says and call him nice guy MacGregor. \n\nHe's a lot of things and not all bad but he's not a nice guy and doesn't have to be.", 
        "Conor posted a photo of himself driving past Aldo KO'd on a billboard like a week after the fight.", 
        "Like he created the billboard...", 
        "I never said nor implied that Conor created the billboard, what's the purpose of your reply?", 
        "How does posting a picture of a billboard he had nothing to do with classless?  Idiot.", 
        "Holy shit you're dense, the billboard itself was tasteless and he posted it to instagram to mock him.\n\nI get that you're salty your boy got choked out but jeez, try posting something coherent.\n", 
        "Aldo is stil trying to talk shit though. Like the man embarrassed you in combat. Maybe talking isn't the route to go if you have beef with him. ", 
        "[the definition of humility](http://i.imgur.com/pVVPtKE.gifv)", 
        "Can anyone tell me what that goober is doing that's patting his leg as if he's asking him to get off the cage? More generally, what's the point of those people?", 
        "Looks like there's a brazillian guy down to his right tapping him and saying \" you, I fuck you! \"", 
        "You're totally right. Celebrating a win. How dare he. ", 
        "I mean, this is in response to somebody saying how classy he is during victory.", 
        "How the fuck is that unclassy? I'm mostly impartial (As a guy who watched and enjoyed Diaz way back on tuf 5), but I don't get you mcgregor haters. \n\nDid he gloat at Aldo? No.  He signaled something akin to having a lot of fucking money. \n\nHas he ever stood over an opponent and gloated after beating them or made it a point to talk shit in the press after he beat them? No. Matter of fact, aldo posted something on Facebook calling him a pussy even after mcgregor beat him and said kind things in the post fight interview. \n\nOnce you guys realize a lot of the antics and words said leading up to a fight (including something like mcgregor jumping the cage to confront aldo) are 95% promotion and not indicative of a persons attitude or personality, the happier you'll be. ", 
        "You're kidding yourself.\n\nI'm not saying the guys a dick, and I'm certainly not a \"McGregor hater\".\n\nAll I'm saying is that clearly gloating towards the losers team and sticking your fingers up at them is *not* classy.", 
        "No, it sounds like you're simply cherry picking to make a point. I don't know what finger thing you're talking about but I can't think of a fighter in history that didn't celebrate after a win. \n\nThat money gif on top of the cage is not \"sticking up his fingers at the other team\". I stand by my point. Celebrating a win, how dare he. How unclassy of him. \n\nI'd hate to see what you think of rousey, silva, Diaz, rumble, Tito, etc. ", 
        "*I'm* cherry picking? He literally starts flipping the bird at the end of the gif, mate.\n\nPlease tell me how that's classy? And don't just repeat how he's celebrating, I understand that. I'm not even saying he's doing anything wrong, I'm just saying it's not a classy move after winning a match, and I don't even know how you could argue against that.\n\nWhat I think of any other fighter is absolutely irrelevant to this thread.", 
        "*in general*", 
        "Aldo's team was being a bunch of sore losers. They were literally threatening him. Fuck 'em. ", 
        "Shhhhhhhhhhh. \n\nChalk that one up to adrenaline ya goof.", 
        "Yeah, he was a lot more dialed back in the post fight interviews. ", 
        "Hard to be cocky after getting submitted.", 
        "DE LION SOMETIMES LOSES TO DE GAZELLE (??) HAVE YOU SEEN THE CHIN ON THISE FUCKIN GAZELLES?! FUCKIN A, MAN.", 
        "*having your death simulated", 
        "How many times have you heard a fighter give a shit ton of excuses? No excuses Conor just said Diaz was the better man.", 
        "It's not about being cocky at all. It's about being respectful. Jose Aldo got taken out in one shot and is talking shit about Conor already. Conor may be a trash talker and a douche sometimes but he's leagues above Aldo (and Nate too honestly, though he won by an awesome fair and square sub) in terms of being a class act.", 
        "Not about being cocky, though. Fighters love to make excuses and blame everyone but themselves for the loss. He admitted he tried to go up in weight and it didn't work, and praised Nate. That takes class.", 
        "Dillashaw after the Cruz fight for example. ", 
        "I keep wondering how the fight would have gone if they had both weighed in at 155, where Nate usually fights. Any different? \n\nI'm excited to see how Conor does at 155. Those bigger guys have every reason not to fear him as much now. He showed everyone he is indeed beatable and has a breakable chin. ", 
        "It's a good point. I would like to think Diaz might have been a little weaker, but that might be wishful thinking. Mcgregor threw some bombs at him and he ate them. The featherweights would have been hurt by those. Other lightweights that are like Nate (pretty big/tough chin) are probably a bad match up for McGregor.", 
        "Funny thing is in my opinion if RDA took those shots I would think he'd get knocked out. What was really bad was the fact that Conor gassed before a 10 day Nate Diaz.", 
        "he got fucking choked ofc he was classy", 
        "Yea, there really is no other play. Conor is smart enough to know that if he was anything other than humble everyone would turn on him. Even still, he tried to make thinly veiled excuses about fighting the bigger man. Conor and Diaz are about the same size, only reason Diaz would be any bigger is because he had no camp.", 
        "Or course? Your response is retarded considering we've seen what people would call his female equivalent act like a child after her loss. Their personalities clearly aren't as similar as people would make them out to b ", 
        "Hmm, hes always acted like this after fights win or lose. You just buy into the conor hate bangwagon without really watching the fighter's past defeats. ", 
        "He beat a guy with zero camp who clearly gassed out and got off a lucky punch.  That is Conor's \"rise\" in the UFC.  All the while cutting ridiculous weight to get a shot at guy's half his size.  Of his 3 most recent fights, 2 guys had no camp, and one was a lucky punch. ", 
        "I agree they had no camp but surely you can see how Conor has beaten so many opponents he wasn't even training for? The dude just went up two weight classes. Show some respect. ", 
        "Everything from the initial fight against Aldo to now is meaningless.  He didn't deserve the initial fight against Aldo. He beat Mendes who had zero camp, and Mendes made Conor look like an amateur off the street with his take-downs.  Mendes gassed out before he got popped by Conor. The Aldo fight was pure dumb luck.  They both punched each other in the head and Aldo's lights went out, Conor's didn't.  Conor is so much bigger than Aldo or Mendes, Nate was actually Conor's size and look what happened. ", 
        "How is it meaningless?\n\nConor trained for Aldo and was handed the best wrestler in the division on short notice who people said Conor had been protected against. Conor trained for a completely different fighter and had to take Chad on short notice. Chad never once said he was unfit for the fight and he looked fit and ready, only after the fight did he mention something. Conor was also with an injury in that fight but still put Chad asleep. \n\nHow can you say Chad made Conor look like he was an off the street amateur when Chad is the best wrestler in the division? We expect Conor to get taken down and he did, but Chad couldn't stop him on the ground.\n\nHaha dumb luck? Get out. There are videos fo Conor talking about Aldo loading up. Even Nick Diaz calls it and says Conor will crack him. Even before the fight Conor practices that exact sequence attack he used to counter Aldo.  It was planned, it was not dumb luck. \n\nI did see what happened, Conor was boxing the shit out of Nate, look at Nate's face, it was getting wrecked but ultimately Nate is a great fighter and Conor should ahve taken him more seriously. I told people to bet on Nate winning this fight, he won't crumble like the others.\n\nThere are too many sore winners around here and it is disrespectful to Nate, Conor and the sport. Conor is one of the best fighters to ever enter the UFC and Nate deserves more credit for pulling out a win from a fight he was clearly losing. \n\n", 
        "Conor would never in his life beat Mendes with a full camp.   Not to mention Conor is cutting like absolute insanity to get small enough to fight guys he has a size and reach advantage over.\n\nSore winners?  Conor talked his way into a title shot when everyone else would have had to fight 2-3 more times.  \n\n", 
        "Lol your brain must look like mashed potatoes", 
        "I just don't see why there is so much hate and butthurt even when Conor lost. He went up two weight classes, that should be respected. Be glad you have a fighter like Conor in the UFC who pushes boundaries. \n\nConor should have only moved to 155 and taken his time but he likes to put on a show for you guys, it is just a shame that is not respected. All I see right now are supposed Nate fans using this opportunity to shit on a fighter that has been a breath of fresh air to the UFC and it is disgusting. ", 
        "> \"Hmm, hes always acted like this after fights win or lose.\"\n\n> \"its weird but i like connor more after this loss\"\n\nWhat? That's not what he's saying at all. If he's ALWAYS humble why does he like him more? \nHe got choked the fuck out. 100% of the time he will be humble otherwise he would be a bad loser. ", 
        "What are you even saying dude? Conor has been humble after all of his losses, not because he got choked out. Stop acting like Conor was an asshole and you expected him to be a sore loser. He has never been like that, only in your fairy dream land because you've probably been butthurt over conor everytime he wins. ", 
        "Are you on crack? I never said i expected him to be a sore loser. I'm saying it's pretty normal for people to humble after they get submitted.\nYou're assuming I somehow hate connor when im simply saying it's nothing normal to be humble after you lose.\nCan you read? Are you just making things up. ", 
        "Are you sure you'r eon the right track? Because as I said, Conor is always humble, ok?", 
        "> 100% of the time he will be humble otherwise he would be a bad loser.\n\nRead. I literally just said he will always be humble after a loss. I'm saying it's nothing to commend since it's common.", 
        "Even re-reading it, what you're saying doesn't make much sense if this is the point you're trying to make. It is such a non-point too, being choked out didn't humble Conor, Conor is always humble. I don't know what you're debating here, you either agree or you don't and if you agree why did you post rebutting my comment in the first place? ", 
        "> its weird but i like connor more after this loss.... thought he would have a tantrum but he was classy asf\n\nI said it's nothing to \"like him more\" for, since it's a standard reaction. I never said connor isn't always humble. I'm just agreeing that he got choked out so he is going to be humble regardless. \n\nShould I slow down? Am i using big words or?", 
        "Eh that aldo fight says otherwise.", 
        "Eh? He was very humble about Aldo after the fight. ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/pVVPtKE.gifv\n\nThis was posted to a similar comment on this thread. He's a cocky, that's just how he is.", 
        "Did you absolutely forget the part where he offered to shake Aldo's hand and gave him a thumbs up. Dude might bring it on in the fight but he's a classy fucker afterwards. ", 
        "That's cool of him.", 
        "Yeah I saw that as I watched the fight too. He's saying a fuck you to the haters and talking about the money, big deal, that does not mean he is not humble. He only had nice words for Aldo after the fight and said it was horrible for a champion to go out like that so he will offer him the rematch.\n\nYou can't pick one gif and cherry pick. Overall Conor is humble in win or defeat. Stop trying to force your over-sensationalized ideas. ", 
        "Never once was I \"forcing\" my opinion. Your opinion is different from mine, which I'm not even attacking. You think that act doesn't make him not humble, while I think otherwise. If you got a problem with that, it's on you. I don't give a fuck either way. He's a cocky dude, and humble is not how I would describe him. It's just part of his showmanship, which I understand. Builds hype=more money. ", 
        "You simply don't know what you're talking about and bullshit irritates me. No one is buying what you're saying. Conor is a humble dude in victory, as was shown in the Aldo fight. Take off the rose tinted glasses and actually watch the interactions. You cherry picked one, find me another of him being super cocky post-fight. ", 
        "> He's saying a fuck you to the haters and talking about the money, big deal, that does not mean he is not humble.\n\nIt kind of does.", 
        "One moment, right after the fight. After that he goes to Aldo and starts trying to make him feel better and he certainly doe snot kick Aldo while he is down in any interviews etc", 
        "What's humble about going to see your opponent that you just destroyed? If anything it's standard practice.", 
        "I figured he'd be classy but getting to see it has locked it in for me. He gradually grew on me over time as it became clear his persona is just a persona. \n\nHe's always complimentary of his opponents post-fight, calling Aldo a fast, powerful, great champion who deserved a longer fight, giving Chad props for being a real fighter and stepping up on short notice.\n\nHim taking this loss like he has and being so honest with himself in the post-fight presser has all but made me a fan at this point.", 
        ">He's always complimentary of his opponents post-fight\n\n\nAnd he's a raging asshole the rest of the time. if that's the logic you're using then you need to start taking your rides to school on the short bus cuz you're fucking retarded. someone needs to come to your house and start putting rubber on the sharp corners and give you a helmet to wear when you leave the house. Seriously, do you have a brain tumor? are you considered retarded? because I'm going to start being real nice and feeling sorry for you in a second. I mean you're probably an ok guy and all but seriously that is some stupid shit.\n\nSo now that i've spent my entire post insulting you with a throwaway half assed compliment tacked onto the end you should be my fan now too.", 
        "Yeah the difference is that no one is paying you boat loads of money to sell a fight against that guy.", 
        "How else could he act? He got outclassed by an underprepared fighter despite shit talking endlessly how GOAT he was.\n\nReally not liking this damage control that i'm seeing.", 
        "Dweebs like you care far too much about semantics and ego for a sport that is predicated on punching people in the face. ", 
        "Conor outclassed Diaz in the first round.", 
        "He out struck him by 6 punches. Only nates shots landed flush while Conor's grazed Nate because he knows how to box. Secondly, had Nate had 15 seconds more he would have finished the knee bar and you wouldn't be seeing Conor for about 11 months. ", 
        "Why was Nate's face a bloody mess then?\n\nNate got destroyed in the first round. ", 
        "Both Diaz boys have been boxing wince 16. There is a hella lot of scar tissue in their brow ridge. That bleed fairly often. It isn't much of an indication of who's winning although I see the appeal. ", 
        "I'd imagine it's a bit demoralizing to be blinded by your own blood", 
        "This you're being down voted for speaking the truth, look at bisping and silva, bispings face was a mess and he still won, cuts mean nothing if you aren't landing more shots ", 
        "Aside from all that look at the fight metric stats. Conor out struck Nate by 6 punches. Hardly \"destroyed\". Nate found his range, started using his jab and double jab to set up power punches. Nate knows how to box. Conor knows how to play touch butt in the park with that dork. We all have our things in life. ", 
        ">Really not liking this damage control that i'm seeing.\n\nWell, you said it yourself : how else could he act?", 
        "By way of comparison, he certainly handled himself better than Rousey.", 
        "He got beaten but how was he outclassed? He dominated the striking in the first round but gassed out and got caught in the 2nd. Outclassed!?\n", 
        "dude, conor was rocking nate everywhere... how did he get outclassed?", 
        "Shortly before he got slapped in the face six times, rocked with punches to the jaw and choked out in national tv.", 
        "Conor didn't have a scratch on him and was walking Nate back the entire fight lighting him up. A few times it looked like Nate was cringing when Conor went to throw a punch. It is just that Nate has great heart and managed to weather the storm and tag Conor enough to rock him. But there is no case to be made about who was being outclassed, Nate was being lit up every few seconds. I don't know how anyone could see it the other way unless they're completely biased. \n\nOnce Conor was rocked it is over, you can't call someone outclassed for not being able to fight back when they're dead on their feet, that is just a lame way to see things.", 
        "Whatever helps soothe your butthurt, bro. Winning a single round doesn't mean you're \"outclassing\" anyone.\n\nFrankly, if anyone outclassed anyone, it was Diaz. Diaz has a better chin, a more complete repertoire and worlds better ground game. \n\nConor got by on small, hand-picked opponents with no ground game and by cutting himself to death to fight at the smallest weight class he could compete in. How many truly elite grapplers had he faced? How many people did he fight with reach anywhere near his own?\n\nFuck outta here...", 
        "You just admitted Conor won the first round, so how exactly does a fighter get outclassed and still win the round? I mean, Conor didn't even bleed as far as I saw. \n\nI know you're happy Nate won but if you're going to act like Conor wasn't winning the fight then that is not giving Nate the credit he deserves for pulling out a win in a fight he was clearly losing.\n\nConor faced one of the best wrestlers in the UFC in Chad, he shouldn't have jumped up two weight classes, he looked unfit for the fight, but still outclassed Diaz in striking. \n\nYou just sound like you've been butthurt so long that it is all coming out now and it is not good to be supporting Diaz in that way, show some respect to Diaz and don't make it look like you're a sore winner. There are just too many holes to pick in what you're saying. PS. I'm a big Nate fan and Conor fan, but your bullshit is just horrible to read, you're clearly biased and salty as fuck for Conor's past wins. The fight didn't even go to the ground until Conor was clearly unable to walk, so what is this ground game nonesense you're chatting?", 
        "Delicious tears.", 
        "This is how people act when they run out of stuff to say lol", 
        "Or when they stop giving fucks about the conversation.", 
        "I said i'm a big Nate Diaz fan?\n\nYou really are delusional over this Conor thing. It is a shame you make us Nate fans look bad acting like this. ", 
        "Bro the only reason conor lost is cause it was at 170 duh", 
        "He could've acted like Ronda", 
        "Hardly outclassed... He underestimated him is all, i could see him doing well in the future against 155ers", 
        "He didn't get outclassed. Its like people are forgetting he was lighting nate diaz up in the first round.  He dropped his hands and got tagged.  ", 
        "His hands were down a majority of the fight. Conor is used to being the longer, faster fighter. He blew his gas tank in round 1 trying to finish Diaz and it didn't work. He was still landing in round 2 but he was noticeably slower. Then he ate a clean 1-2 with half the round left and had to go into survival mode. Conor did land a few clean shots after he was hurt, but those Diaz brothers are some durable dudes.", 
        "He lost, i wouldnt say he got outclassed, he was kicking his ass before he got rocked.", 
        "Sounding like my buddy that doesn't watch MMA but watched this fight and is an expert.... I don't think Connor won the 1st, and wasn't winning the 2nd. People see Nate bleeding and thinking he was losing...", 
        "You have to be joking. Conor was playing with him in the first. It looked like he was going to humiliate him. ", 
        "I felt that Nate was getting the better of the standup", 
        "Near the end of the fight I think he did, but Conor was fucking him up before that. Go look at Diaz post fight, he's all destroyed, and even in the interviews you can tell he hates how much he got hit. ", 
        "Apparently your buddy is more of an expert than you are. Connor won the first round easily. ", 
        "You're delusional if you think Conor didn't win the 1st", 
        "It was close in terms of striking. Conor won by a small margin.", 
        "That fight was the definition of outclassed. Diaz weathered Conor's worst and waded through him with crisp boxing and fatal jiu jitsu.", 
        "I disagree 100%. I think Conor was making Diaz look bad until he got hit and gassed. I don't think it was a fluke, I think Diaz would probably win a fair share of fight against Conor he's bigger has an amazing chin and keeps on going. That said if they both dropped down in weight I think Conor would destroy him. Conor looked really good for most of the fight, he was hitting him hard and making it look flashy. I don't see how you can say a fighter got outclassed when he was winning the fight right up until like the last minute. ", 
        "Conor threw everything he had at Nate. He stuck to his gameplan you could see him spamming that left uppercut and trying to work Nate's lead leg. Nate lost the first round but was never in danger of being finished. \n\nConor landed a lot but also was being peppered by shots the entire fight which led to him being wobbled and finished which is what the Diaz brothers do and Conor could not stop it. Outclassed.\n\nYou can say Conor was winning the fight until the last minute, you act like it was a two round fight. It was only the last minute because Conor got finished. ", 
        "Dude outclassed is not even belonging, it's getting embarrassed, it's Silva versus Forest. It's when it's so obvious form the getgo that one fighter is superior in every way. Conor wasn't outclassed, he just lost. ", 
        "You're in denial my friend. Conor has a heavy left hand and some neat tricks to help disguise that he's delivering it. Nate has world class boxing, world class jiu jitsu, he's a seasoned mma pro. He's even got some great judo throws I wish we saw last night. \n\nConor was outclassed on his feet and on the ground. He tried his best and had some good moments but didn't beat Nate anywhere. \n\nOutclassed.", 
        "I don't know what to tell you, I could even be wrong, but I just didn't see it that way. ", 
        "Fair enough", 
        "I agree with you. Conor simply fought the wrong fight.\n\nEvery single dude in history who tried to outbrawl the Diaz bros paid for it. Conor thought he was the exception to this rule. Let this be a cautionary tale.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It's true though... How was he not?\n\nJust like Holly was winning until she lost. I don't see whats funny about it, it happen a lot in mma. ", 
        "Silva vs Sonnen 1 is the best example of that IMO. ", 
        "Right? It happens all the time in MMA. Happened to Holly and Conor last night. Happened to Chael vs Anderson. Anything can happen in MMA.", 
        "People that don't really pay attention to combat sports don't understand it. Just like how someone can hit a last second shot in basketball, or rally from five runs down in baseball, you can win the fight until you lose.\n\nHolly/Tate was 10-9, 8-10, 10-9, 10-9 and was leading to another 10-9 until Tate took her down and subbed her out. Conor won round one, was doing well until he got caught. Nate saw it and beat his ass like a bongo.", 
        "There's a huge difference in a last minute sub in the last minute of a fight and turning the tide in the second round using crisp boxing and then finishing them when they panic wrestle. \n\nConor wasn't finished with one punch once he was caught. He was finished after accumulating punches on his chin to the point he couldn't defend himself and then he shot to buy time to recover. Which he had less of a chance on the ground. Outclassed.", 
        "So everyone who's ever lost a fight has been outclassed.  Doesn't matter how the fight went before they got KO'd or submitted.  Doesn't matter if it went to decision.  The loser didn't do enough and the winner did.  Outclassed.\n  \n-ucanthandlethetruff", 
        "\"I am butthurt.\"\n\n- /u/coulditbe23 ", 
        "Nah man, I'm outclassed.", 
        "TBF Diaz isn't always as chill in defeat as Conor was today.", 
        "Difference is that's actually Diaz's personality.", 
        "im more interested in seeing how he takes things from here on. hes very likable if he can reign in his massive ego.", 
        "He was shittalking Aldo at the post fight press conference, haha. He's the same guy. He just doesn't insult his opponents after the fight. ", 
        "I bet he loses the belt at 145 next.", 
        "I agree, it's not about how he takes it straight after the fight, it's about how it affects him long term.", 
        "Think this might have come at the right time for him, he was clearly starting to believe his own hype and left himself open to those big shots. ", 
        "I totally agree. This could have been the perfect time to lose and the perfect opponent to lose to. His accurate analysis and openess about his mistakes reassures me as a fan that he'll get better but there's been a noticeable change in his fight style as he had so much confidence in his power. ", 
        "Exactly this! Anyone who thinks they can fight in the UFC with their hands down the entire night needs to come back down to Earth. ", 
        "His entourage needs fewer ponytails I feel.", 
        "Robin Black should use your words on his break down.", 
        "Nah. Doesn't need fewer ponytails, just needs to spend less time with those ponytails. The one thing Nate kept saying to him and it almost felt like a plea: Surround yourself with the best fighters you can. \n\nThe 209 crew isn't really championship material, but there are world class BJJ practitioners, amazing wrestlers, and stand up kings. Conor has Gunni, Kavanagh, Artem, and Ido. For a guy worth tens of millions and claiming he wants to be worth a lot more, he really needs to start re-investing.", 
        "You have to be class after you get your ass whooped. ", 
        "ronda didn't own up to her loss. She just shrank away like a bully who got a taste of their own medicine. ", 
        "You want to say you lost to a powerful skilled opponent, not a chump.", 
        "Yep, promo cutting 101- always talk up your opponent so if you lose, it's not so bad since you lost to an excellent and worthy opponent but if you win, the win is all the sweeter for defeating such an excellent opponent ", 
        "You're in luck.... I think you will like him more and more at 55. He better get back on salads. ", 
        "45 or 55? This was a 55 fight without a weight cut", 
        "170", 
        "Yeah but at 155 you prob get back to 170 when you rehydrate after weighins which is more what he meant. After both rehydrate they are probably around where they were. That and Nate is a 155 fighter", 
        "Conor looked tiny compared to Nate. And he weighed in 2 lbs under. Probably stuffed and overhydrated himself just to do that.", 
        "He will only dominate at 45. He is just another guy at 55. ", 
        "You nailed it - the fight was over after that 1-2 IMO. Conor looked lost the rest of the way. ", 
        "I have to say this again. I'm so proud of Nate. Conor did his thing too, he landed some bombs that would've rocked lesser opponents. 170 is too much for Conor to chew. Nate Diaz just catapulted himself into a title shot. Congrats to him. ", 
        "I was giggling like mad whenever Nate snuck a slap in. Dude is so gangster.", 
        "I was really impressed with their speed retention at 170. A lot of folks said you get slower, but neither dude looked slow at all. ", 
        "well to be fair, he probably walked into the octagon at 170, and after he rehydrates from his lethal 145 cut, hes probably around the 160-170 mark anyway", 
        "I'd say 155-60. I'm in no way an expert, but I don't believe he rehydrates upwards of 25 pounds of water weight. But I also have never done it, so who knows?", 
        "yeah, that sounds about right. but bottom line was he was going into the fight about 10 lbs max heavier, not exactly 25 lbs like one would think. I definitely think it showed with how fast he gassed out though", 
        "Conor looked burned out within the first minute of round two. It just looked like he hadn't adjusted to the weight gain. I said it beforehand, Taking the fight at 170 was stupid", 
        "How would it be different if he took the fight at 155? Fucking tool, he just skipped the watercut and weighed in at 168", 
        "He reminded me of old school BJ Penn.\n\nIf you guys think that even the fattest laziest version of Burrito Penn couldn't go out and run 10+ miles on a whim you're fooling yourself.  That man just came out with too much intensity, and swung with way too much force with every strike.  On the exact opposite spectrum you have the Diaz bros who, even when they're fresh, they throw at what looks like 35-50%.\n\nThat's why Conor keeps talking about conserving energy, you really can't go out and swing for the fences every shot and expect to go 5 rounds.  The body just isn't capable of that.", 
        "I was under the impression they basically fought like 155ers that didn't have to cut weight. Why would that be bad?", 
        "the difference between fighting a 5'5 145 chad mendes and a 5'11 170 nate diaz is very different and not something conor can handle right now. The advantage that makes conor good is him being naturally able to cut more weight than others, and slip into the FW division and bully everyone, 4 or 5 times tonight conor landed a shot that would put most featherweights away but nate just ate it and hit conor back harder. I couldnt have hurt for conor to try and probably will teach him alot but from a winning and legacy standpoint, this was a pretty foolish fight to take, theres a reason champions dont often leave their division and even less often go up 2 divisions. 10-25 lbs changes alot more than you think", 
        "Yeah vs RDA ok you take a fight with a champ in the next weight class and lose.\n\nBut now he lost a non title fight with the 5th ranked guy. Looks a lot worse in terms of legacy", 
        "yeah but from how he took this loss, to me it seems like conor doesnt care much about legacy and being undefeated, he doesnt seem afraid of failure like some other guys might be", 
        "True and he gets alot of respect for how he handled the loss. But it doesn't matter how Conor views his legacy. Legacy is determined by the people. And this loss was not good for his legacy", 
        "That and he was putting a lot into those punches. Nate has a solid chin and excellent head movement. ", 
        "Also 3 inches in height, 2 inches in reach and he's a more natural welterweight than Mcgregor.", 
        "Excellent head movement? That's a stretch.", 
        "That sounds wrong, you're right. I mean it more like he rolled with some of those punches, or completely avoided some big strikes. He did eat a shit ton of lefts, though.", 
        "and his Conan O'Brien wheel kicks", 
        "Yeah, what the fuck was that? Haha. They are cool as shit but land like 1 out 10 times. ", 
        "I think he felt pressured to get that knockout because he told Conan he was (or so I've heard).", 
        "He's used to getting quick and easy knockouts. So he was going for another.", 
        "You're damn right. You could see that. And that's why he got tired and frustrated. His big shots didn't work, then they started missing, then he paid the price. ", 
        "I've been saying from the beginning that he was underestimating Nate. Glad Nate was able to finish him.", 
        "I think so, too. I didn't believe it at first, but with how he fought I can see it. \n\nDiaz had a point. When is he gonna get the push he deserves? He is massively underestimated and has some legit loses to legit dudes. (Meaning thats his only loses. To legit guys).", 
        "As soon as he stops saying motherfucker every other word.", 
        "Victim of not being easily marketable to the public. That's exactly why. But shit, Dana, give him a penthouse suite in Vegas next time ;)", 
        "Theres a huge difference between fighting closer to your natural weight and bulking up to take on a higher weight class. When we see guys retain speed when moving up it's normally those who didn't have to gain to do it.", 
        "They are in the terms of the sport actually 155 because neither cut. Both weighed in at under 170. ", 
        "Nate definitely cut to get to 170 if he was asking for 165. I've already seen this a few times and it's stupid bandwagon to jump on. Nate landed a good left after Conor dropped his hands. All she wrote.", 
        "Obviously both arent 155 or even 165. But they arent welterweights cutting to 170. They both just agreed to fight at 170 instead of 155. Conor seemed to have room to gain in the days leading up and nate probably watched his diet and worked hard to get in shape.", 
        "Looked like Nate had to do a little cutting. Definitely looked bigger than Conor tonight.", 
        "Youre just used to him fighting midgets ", 
        "He is oldschool boxer style, no weight lifting. He has a bigger frame but no where near as much muscle mass", 
        "I know he doesn't have much muscle mass but his natural frame is much larger. Looked upper 170's-180 to me.", 
        "I've tried explaining this to people. Nate is a huge LW. The guy keeps himself rail thin to make 155. If he had a normal amount of muscle on him, he would never get below 170. ", 
        "He fought at welterweight for gods sake of course he's huge.", 
        "Conor looked just as quick as he did at 145. I don't know what terms you are talking about. I'm not saying it's the gold standard either. Just both dudes looked fast. ", 
        "Point is he doesn't actually fight at 145.  He rehydrates and fights closer to the weight he fought at tonight.  So your statement is true, because it's the same Conor come fight time, except\nthis time he had gained muscle to fight at 155, which may have depleted him faster.  Rogan always talks about how heavily muscled guys have bad cardio.", 
        "I thought differently. He looked much slower and there was no bounce in his step. He looked like a completely different fighter than the one who fought Aldo.", 
        "My point is that he was fast and that the weight didn't matter because he already walked around near 170 and this fight he just didn't cut down the day before. So in all his training videos we see leading up to fights he is actually closer to todays weight then he was on 145 pound fight days. ", 
        "I can already see this 170 thing being the new \"2 week training camp\" . Conor was fast, he just went out there and tried to pit his chin against a Diaz's and, not surprisingly a Diaz won. ", 
        "I don't. Both dudes came in at their walk around weight. The guy on short notice won because he was the better fighter. Conor said it himself. The bigger you are, the better shots you can take. \n\nThere shouldn't be any excuses for either side. ", 
        "I think he's agreeing with you. Basically saying that Conor and Diaz are at the same functional weight. I think /u/tsegen is saying that people will be making excuses for Conor because he was \"fighting at 170\" when realistically they both fought at 155 but didn't cut.", 
        "Exactly, fighters who weigh in at 155 usually weigh in close to 170 by the time they get in the cage. So this was a lightweight bout and Conor lost.\n\n", 
        "Didn't Nate weigh in around 182 on fight night though?", 
        "Really? i  haven't heared anything about that, only know of Conor saying the week before he was walking around at about 180 but nothing from Nate other than the beach fatboy comments he made after the fight.", 
        "Hopefully this whole \"Conor went up 2 weight classes\" thing just stops.", 
        "It wont, nuthuggers wont drop that one", 
        "But it literally was a welterweight fight. ", 
        "I think they are even saying 3 weight classes at this point.", 
        "It won't. In fact it'll increase if he ever wins against a lightweight.", 
        "Historically, people have always called Nate slow.\n\n\nI don't think Nate's slow. I think his length and lankiness make him look deceptively slow when you compare him to compact explosive fighters like MacGregor.\n\n\nNate's long limbs require him to be fast to be competitive. Thus, we often see him punch his opponents 2....3....4....5...times before they even know they are in deep waters.\n\nNate's speed, timing, precision, and volume collectively are unmatched in MMA. Richard Perez needs props.", 
        "nate hardly has any muscle. makes it harder to move those arms.", 
        "Well, I know when I call Nate slow, I'm not talking about his reflexes.  Dude's a fighting savant.", 
        "Plus it's one thing to see a punch land on someone else, it's another to see it coming at your face.\n", 
        "I think his movements come into his cardio game as well.  No unnecessary movements so the cardio discrepancy is even bigger later on.", 
        "Got damn, spot on mate. Good analysis! ", 
        "I wonder how weird it is to be uo against him because of his reach. You think he's moving slow and yet he hits you fast. Must fuck with your head.", 
        "that two piece in the gif surprised the hell out of me when i saw it live. It was so fast and i didnt expect it at all. Your explanation is well said.", 
        "Diaz bros' striking are always underestimated until it's too late. Everyone else looks like world beaters with their 1 punch knockout and 1st round finishes then they face them.\n\nSo many times on paper people would conclude they would be outstruck. It happened with Gomi, Zaromskis, Daley with Nick and Johnson, Cerrone, and Conor with Nate. Oddmakers need to start waking up.", 
        "Zaromskis was a 155er that nearly put Nick out with a headkick. I wouldn't chalk that up as a stunning striking performance by Diaz. Also, Cerrone was tooling Diaz by the third round when he remembered he was a kickboxer. The Diaz brothers are great fighters, but their striking can be beaten.", 
        "no they don't, i like making money off their ignorance", 
        "Hey, I'm not complaining. I won money on Nate beating Johnson and Conor. I'm just saying how many times will the Diaz bros have to win stand-up fights until people understand their game isn't that simple?", 
        "for sure, you might say - precision beats power, and timing beats speed...", 
        "Volume beats all of those things", 
        "Its awesome how many times the Diaz bros have beat their dog odds to win me money.", 
        "Yup. Soon as I saw that I knew the end was coming ", 
        "Like when Holm matador'd Rousey", 
        "Precision beats power. Timing beats speed.", 
        "And they can't take that left hand... of Diaz. ", 
        "[HIT EM WIT DA SLAP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MN2EyPHhql0)", 
        "Conor had a little flurry between getting rocked and shooting on nate. Gotta respect him for the effort and reaction to the loss.", 
        "GSP had the same mindset when he rocked by Serra, he thought that he should dish some out rather than try to hold and recover, that transfored him to the wrestler GSP we all know, I wonder if the same will happen to Conor.", 
        "That knockout caused GSP to finish the next 3 out of 4 fights. Definitely not the \"wrestler\" you're implying.\n\nEdit: 3 out 5. Didn't finish Fitch but put an absolute beating on him.", 
        "2-2 not 3 of 4 and he wrestlefucked everybody but Hughes.I still remember the Koscheck fight. Everybody was expecting it to be Koscheck trying to take GSP down and GSP gave him a wrestling clinic instead", 
        "You're right. It's 3 out of 5. Fitch was an absolute beating and where GSP schooled Fitch on the feet. It wasn't a wrestling clinic. Do you remember his other fights? Who cares if he gave a wrestling clinic. He has one of of the most active top games and always looks to pass.", 
        "Yea I remember his other fights. Previous to Serra he fought a lot on the feet and used a ton of karate. Post Serra KO he used much more wrestling and stayed away from trading. That's when he also started to develop a strong jab. After the Serra fight he took down pretty much every legitimate striker he faced. Not sure what about OPs post you were disputing but that KO definitely changed him as a fighter, no question", 
        "It changed him as a fighter but he he didn't strictly become a wrestler. He beat Serra on the feet and then landed knees to the body until the referee stopped it. He beat Fitch on the feet and threw a lot of kicks and combos. He beat BJ Penn on the feet to the point where his corner threw in the towel at the end of the round. He stood with Diaz and Condit and did well on the feet. The Serra fight changed him but he did not wrestlefuck everyone. That's just wrong. Serra, Penn, Hughes, Fitch, and Diaz were not wrestlefucks.", 
        "Well he took Serra down four times and 72% of his strikes were on the ground. He and Fitxh stood a lot more but he still took him down 7 times. Took BJ down 4 times landed half his strikes on the ground and 25% in the clinch. Took Diaz down nine times. Condit 7, 63% of his strikes on the ground. So he was definitely wrestling guys. 1st BJ fight 80% of his strikes were standing", 
        "Of course. But wrestling guys and landing strikes is different from wrestlefucking.", 
        "He definitely has to work on his groundgame. I said it once before, but SBG does not make good grapplers. You saw Gunner get mauled by Maia, you saw Artem get swamped by Ryan Hall, and you see Conor losing all of his fights by submissions... SBG is not high level enough for Conor, and he should realize this before he ends up making a fool out of himself. I still love Conor and I'm glad he got shut up", 
        "Connor didn't lose because of grappling he lost by boxing. ", 
        "They're rubbish examples for that point because Maia is one of the best grapplers in MMA and Hall is one of the best at the weight class so if anything they actually demonstrate bad game planning in choosing to or letting the fight go to the ground with these guys not terrible grappling from fighters from the gym", 
        "After all his talk of loyalty though...I doubt he'll leave. Ah well.", 
        "Nelson and Conor aren't training with top-tier partners at SBG, and it will eventually show for Conor. The fact that they (especially Artem) fight with their hands down shows that there is a problem with coaching..\n\nHe seems to be following the Rousey path where their loyalty leads to them ignoring their weaknesses and staying surrounded by yes men.", 
        "Yeah but both Maia and Hall are absolutely world class when it comes to BJJ. ", 
        "lol that's a good excuse to not work on your groundgame or adequate TDD defense", 
        "Not really... but you can't say that they aren't good grapplers because they got mauled by those fighters. Did you watch any Gunni fights other than the Maia one?", 
        "I'm sure they did work on but months of preparation doesn't beat their years and years of training on the ground. ", 
        "There was a video on here not long ago with Nate beating Ryan Hall in a jiu jitsu tourny. It was awhile ago but it still shows what Conor was facing on the ground.", 
        "Do you mean SBG? Conor trains at straight blast gym", 
        "Holy fuck I'm an IDIOT. thanks!", 
        "I agree but gunner is a great bjj fighter.. Everything I've heard and seen about Maia says he's on a different planet grappling wise ", 
        "Maia is a BJJ wizard, but he isn't the belt-holder for a reason.. Smart coaches prepare their fighters for Maia by teaching them how to stuff take downs, create distance, and work from tough ground positions.. Something that SBG doesn't seem to do very often with its fighters.", 
        "Maybe because he hasn't had a title shot at WW...", 
        "Tbf you're talking about Maia and Hall as if they're your regular grapplers. They're both BJJ wiz's. ", 
        "That's true, but let's be real.. Who do Gunnar and Conor really have in Ireland? They aren't training with top-tier partners and it will eventually show for Conor. The fact that they (especially Artem) fight with their hands down shows that there is a problem with coaching.. ", 
        "Gunni is a brown belt in BJJ. His fight against Maia was a masterclass in BJJ, both offense and defense .\n\nDemian Maia is one of the all-time greatest BJJ practitioners and anyone else in that situation would've been submitted in the first round.", 
        "ehhhh, let's be honest. Jiu jitsu is nothing special. It is just a bunch of ground movements. Maia never had nothing on Gunni", 
        "What are you talking about? Are you calling Maia a mug on the ground?", 
        "It's not anything someone can't get out of if they practice weighlifting and squatting. Bjj is for mma amatures really", 
        "Roger Gracie is in London, which is a short flight. ", 
        "Wolf's lair is a 40 minute flight across the water. Mario Neto still coaches there as far as I'm aware.", 
        "He also said that without the Serra loss, he would have probably lost to Condit when Condit rocked him bad. Said he learned how and what to do in that moment. ", 
        "While Conor was butt touching in the park with Ido, Nate was working on his cardio, boxing, and jiu-jitsu.", 
        "It was so noticeable, Conor was so quick and fast and it was like he just slowed down so much after those punches. It was like he went from ghost to having Nasus full rank whither  ", 
        "Maybe Nate was right about Conor's training partners and he should change camp.", 
        "Can Conors loyalty be his downfall?  He's not likely to ever switch camps based on how much he's always preached loyalty and that Ireland and SBG are his home.  ", 
        "Conor isn't wrong. Being loyal is important. But it's also about improving in his profession and he can only do that by visiting other gyms to see how they work. Can't be mad at him if he did that.", 
        "It's amazing he's got this far with Artem as his sparring partner", 
        "The Stockton Slap started it all.", 
        "So close to slapping him.", 
        "[He actually slapped him a lot](http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x3w5h3j_nate-diaz-slaps-mcgregor_sport)", 
        "Wow, that's great", 
        "he slapped him at the beginning of the combo", 
        "I saw it.  I'm waiting for that .gif", 
        "He slapped him a few times. Depending on if I throw up from this hangover I'm nursing, I might compile a gif of them. ", 
        "Mcgregor didn't run out of energy he got rocked\n\nHe was talking after every exchange except this one", 
        "Connor is a fucking badass. I dont care about him losing this fight. Look at him move and strike. He underestimated what fighting a bigger man is like. I expect him to continue dominating and take a lesson from this fight and become p4p. ", 
        "Win or lose, Conor is awesome.  His stand up is great, and he has big balls to go up in weight like this.  However, unless he seriously improves (which he very well could with his work ethic,) He could have a big problem getting to top of pound for pound.  His ground skills once again look like a giant hole to be exploited.  I think he may have a very rough go if fights Frankie Edgar next.", 
        "Nope. Frankie will murder him. He has nothing at 155 either, since he has 0 grappling abilities. The hype train has gone off the rails and the conductor jumped out. Dana White is already looking for the next fantasy for fans to believe in. ", 
        "Yeah because once GSP lost to Matt Sera is was over.......", 
        "Cos getting KTFO by Serra really ruined GSP's career? The guy is still FW champ, it stopped being a hype train long ago.", 
        "GSP never looked like a lost kid at the grocery store when the fights went to the ground though...If Conor stops playing touch butt he can be a real threat to both 145 and 155, but until he has a ground game he's not gonna go much further. ", 
        "It's like a great fighter never had a loss...", 
        "Once you've had a loss, all your victories were against cans.  It's how /r/mma works.", 
        "At 145 maybe, no chance he is beating RDA after what Diaz did to him. ", 
        "Assuming he learns to box and spends less time playing touch butt in the park with that dork. ", 
        "It's like people here didn't watch the first round or something", 
        "Clearly you didn't. Conor couldn't leave an exchange clean and as the round went on he was getting tagged more and more. He finished the round with 6 more strikes than Diaz. Not the domination you remember. Get his cock out your mouth and watch it like an objective fan. ", 
        "Yeh people should re-watch the first round.\n\nConor is like something out of a video game. Amazing to watch his standup. He gives zero fucks, and is all about putting on a show for the viewers, and trying to get a spectacular KO.", 
        "I think it is valuable for high level fighters to get a lose if they can learn from it. Connor was very confident coming in, it will be useful to him to know he isn't invulnerable.", 
        "He actually took a loss at the most opportune time if you think about it because it was an extra class up, he didn't lose his belt, and could be argued he still has a shot at 155 waiting for him. I've never seen him rocked, I think he might learn to handle recovering from being rocked like gsp did after matt ", 
        ">He underestimated what fighting a bigger man is like.\n\nSee, this is bullshit to me. Sure, Nate is bigger. But Nate can also drop to 155 no problem. Nate is still going to be the relative same size to Conor if they both drop to 155. I think there are two take aways here: first, Conor probably does do better when he can outsize his opponents, but that does not mean he can move up as easily as he thinks. And second, Conor's game is not as developed as he thinks or wants us to think. ", 
        "The truth is Conor underestimated what happens when he fights and he is not the bigger man. Conor is the best example of why people do drastic weight cuts. It's the secret of his success.", 
        "BUT HE FOUGHT THE MOUNTAIN", 
        "\"He was more efficient than I was\"\n\nMore like Diaz walked through his hardest strikes and boxed his face off.", 
        "After almost getting KO'd and clearly losing round 1\n\nU mad?", 
        "Not mad at all.  Matter of fact, I tripled my money.  Nate out boxed Conor with NO TRAINING CAMP.  ", 
        "That was lame. Conor threw everything at Nate and it didn't work. I was hoping Nate would call him out at that press conference for trying to blame the loss on his own (Conor's) performance rather than Nate just being the better fighter that night. Like, dude you didn't lose to yourself, you got your ass beat by Nate. ", 
        "rambled about his own energy and efficiency just avoiding saying \"I got beat\" I'm surprised people are saying he was humble in defeat", 
        "I think if Diaz really pushed for it he could have finished McGregor with punches. Not sure if he would have flatlined him because McGregors chin seems to be decent, but I really think a few more big shots and Connor would have been on his knees covering up. \n\nThe submission loss looks a lot better, it's just a part of his game that he really needs to improve (hence the losses by subs) instead of get finished by strikes (the thing he's known for being best at) ", 
        "Conor's a quick tapper, he tapped quick vs duffy, and he tapped before I even noticed nate was under the chin here. Imo this fight tap was more of a rumble vs DC \"im gassed out and we have 3 more rounds, fuck it, I quit\" tap", 
        "im gassed out and we have 3 more rounds, fuck it, I quit\" tap <- Are you kidding me ? More like a \"Im not getting out of this one tap\"", 
        "Dude if Nate has a choke under your chin you are either tapping or going out. You really thought there was anyway for Conor to escape that?", 
        "People seem to miss this point.  There's no way Conor was getting out of that mount.", 
        "Dey don't tap leik I tap.", 
        "He could have finished him but he went with the taunt and another 209 slap instead. Worth it ", 
        "\"The reason I don't have a lot of knockouts is because when people get hit by me they turn into wrestlers.\"", 
        "Yup. The fight was over on that series. Conor was really doing great until then. He clearly got stunned and Diaz never let him fully recover. Good job by Diaz for actually having some fight IQ and keeping the pressure. Conor's defense seems to be entirely based on his movement and his chin, and that's a hard combination to rely on when you're on queer street. Needs to work on covering up more.", 
        "Idk I thought Connors head movement was pretty great actually. But still not perfect, and he was using it as if it was perfect but still getting tagged. ", 
        "Oh no, early in the fight Conor's head movement definitely was as good as we've seen it in the UFC. He was doing a really good job slipping punches and getting out of the real danger. I was speaking about once he got hurt in the second, the movement wasn't there anymore and he needed his hands up to compensate.", 
        "Okay yea I fed agree. I wonder if that 1-2 combo that dazed him just put him in auto-pilot and so he just stuck with the head movement game plan. ", 
        "Conor looked so small compared to Nate. What would he look like against a guy like Nick or Robbie?", 
        "Conor has no business being at 170, he should stay at 145 or 155.", 
        "So fighting midgets the rest of his career", 
        "Unconscious.", 
        "Nope he will tap out instead", 
        "Smaller", 
        "Not really. Nate is pretty much every bit as big as Nick. http://fightstarmma.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/nick-nate2.jpg", 
        "I'm new to MMA, what am I suppose to see here?", 
        "The guy in the left landed a solid one with his left. Guy on the right backpedaled. Look at his feet. It's wobbly. ", 
        "Watching Nate throw 1-2s into guys is like crack for me now. ", 
        "Reach matters.", 
        "A similar thing happened between Jones and Gustafsson.  Once the reach was equalized the fight became very different.", 
        "Jones also has slower hands which made the snipingfest really different compared to his other fights.", 
        "NO THE KEY POINT WAS EFFICIENCY", 
        "Started with a Stockton Slap.", 
        "Did you catch the Stockton slap in the exchange?", 
        "Conor sure did.", 
        "It's amazing that after that combination Conor still shrugs it off like it was nothing. He was definitely rocked, but he still tried to put on a persona of \"that was it?!\". ", 
        "a lot of people are saying this, and they're probably right, but i took that shrug as \"ok so you hit kind of hard, i can respect that\"\n", 
        "Dude was fucked after that. Some fighters to do to try and make their opponent thing they are okay, but really they are kinda fucked after that. ", 
        "I'm now sure RDA will pretty much kill Conor.", 
        "To those that shat on me for saying he has no chance against Lawler, how fast does your hype train feel now? \n\nThings that matter: Weight classes. Ground game. Too much self belief.", 
        ">  shat on me for saying he has no chance against Lawler\n\nThose guys are not fans if they want to witness murder ", 
        "He suddenly became \"gassed\" after that punch landed.", 
        "In hindsight it seemed pretty smart Nate didn't rush in. He could've got countered or gassed out. A lot of fighters would've went for the finish here.", 
        "that's the beauty of having range ", 
        "That facial expression change when he slumps... wow.", 
        "just before this, nate started landing a few solid jabs. i think that was the key. he landed jabs repeatedly with solid contact, started gaining more confidence that he could hit conor, then followed those jabs with straights and combos. ", 
        "Conors blood red beard looked dope though.", 
        "You can see Conor tried to counter off the jab with a left upper cut, but misjudged the distance and ate the straight left instead.", 
        "He gave him the slap!", 
        "conor had less RNC defense than holly holm\n\nthe notorious choke out artist", 
        "Some of may have had to do with the fact that he had no idea what was going on.", 
        "Conor is badly rocked here, basically out on his feet and never recovered. Everything after that is just routine - Nate could have finished him in a dozen ways in a minute or less. That punch finished him.", 
        "Has anyone noticed that Diaz likes to take these big wide steps forward when he fights? Do you think that's a weakness of his?", 
        "Yeah it leaves him vulnerable to leg sweeps and kicks but I guess it also helps him make extra use of his reach ", 
        "Yes. It's the reason he gets mauled by leg kicks all the time. Hes real heavy on that lead leg", 
        "Everyone tries to stand with nate. Michael johnson made the same mistake. However even if the fight had gone to the ground mcgregor would have been dominated. Conor cant face someone who has a reach advantage over him. He should stick to featherweight.", 
        "The way he throws the 1-2 is really interesting.\nWhen I used to train box, I'd throw the 2 as I'm retrieving the jab arm  so I could use the hip.\nBut Nate, throws the the 1 followed with the 2 in sequence, one behind the other, and putting his weight on it.\n\nIf you didn't dodge the 1 the 2 is coming behind as well, if you managed to dodge the 1, most likely the 2 will impact anyways.", 
        "Is that not how most do it? Curious to know what you think", 
        "Nate was just barely missing that straight left in the first round. Conor slowed down so much in the second it was just a matter of time that Nate would do enough damage. If he hadn't submitted him in the 2nd it would've been a ko/tko in the 3rd.", 
        "What really enabled that to happen was Connor gassing.  Once again, the Diaz brothers win due to superior conditioning and toughness, backed up by technical, high-volume boxing.", 
        "Lost in all the hoopla is a bad ass fight", 
        "All that talk about precision and timing and he gets lit up with 3 straight 1-2's", 
        "But, damn it. If Nate had gone after him with a pool noodle, Connor would have been dodging that stuff like a spider monkey. ", 
        "A touch butt contest wouldn't even be close", 
        "I don't see much Irish flags in this thread /Kappa", 
        "Someone has to make a meme of nate with the timing beats speed and precision beats power or whatever", 
        "Why didn't McGregor throw many kicks? ", 
        "I think he acknowledged in one interview that he neglected working the body", 
        "Where's Connors hands?! That's what you get for fighting like a cocky motherfucker..", 
        "He should have doubled up on the pool noodle training for this one. Don't sleep on a Diaz. ", 
        "Would you be able to upload a bit after this? I believe Conor traded a bit more before the TD attempt he took. Would love to see that! ", 
        "It was like a sick double tap to the chin.", 
        "They can't handle the 1-2", 
        "I HIGHLY recommend watching the gif in reverse", 
        "I don't watch much UFC but I sAW someone in another thread mention that you could tell he was toast after this by the look of his eyes.", 
        "I never understood fighters who were okay with taking head shots as a defense. Some of the punches were like he just wanted to prove he could take him, and he didn't even try to check them. Silva did that too. ", 
        "The TV at the bar I was at went out like 10 seconds before this happened. It popped back on right after, and everyone was so confused why Conor suddenly looked worse. Glad to finally see it.", 
        "That sucks!", 
        "Conor looking so serious all of a sudden. There was a part where you can tell he's wearing down and he tags Nate with a huge shot and Nate keeps coming and there's a nod from Conor. I felt like that was a major moment mentally because I think Conor hasn't fought someone like that yet who can just eat his best shots and tag him back. ", 
        "That classic Nate 1-2 combo from sure did surprise the shit outta Conor.  I love Conor's retreat and then nods in acknowledgement too.", 
        "Odd,  this isn't a picture of the weigh ins.", 
        "I had money on the fight ending in the first round without going to the ground, Diaz knocking Connor out. That's not how the fight went, but I knew Connor just could not match Nate's boxing.", 
        "McGregor just lost his self proclaimed \"McGregor Belt\". ", 
        "You know. The shots McGregor threw could definitely have put away Dos Anjos if they had fought. But then again, McGregor could have also eaten a huge shot and gotten KOd based on how the Diaz fight went.", 
        "we dont really know if Conor left would make that kind of impact. The guys over at Kings MMA hit hard and are accustomed to brawling/getting hit. Just check the sparring footage between Wanderlei and Werdum. These guys like to go hard.", 
        "He broke the most important rule and lost the fight because of it. Don't stand square in front of your opponent with your hands down. Especially that close. ", 
        "Diaz's slap right after the gif... I instantly knew he was going to win there hah.", 
        "my voice is still sore from that moment.  When you got diaz to win Rd2 against every fight fan you know...\n\nFuck yeah mutherfucker!", 
        "Technique beats power ", 
        "Conor's face at the end \"Yeah, you rocked me. Dees tings happen.\"", 
        "What a great fucking FIGHT!  ", 
        "pretty funny to watch considering how Conor's lack of wrestling attack/clinch fighting has no defense for this slaping.", 
        "I thought the key moment came a minute before that when he was obviously gassed out.", 
        "I thought it was funny how both of them would sort of shrug their shoulders whenever they hit in the head as if like, \"so what? that's it?\" but after that sequence, McGregor stopped doing that, although it does look like he does it again right as the GIF cuts off", 
        "it's not grappling that beat conor, \nmay have led to the finishing blow but Nate fought fire with fire & showed he was the better overall boxer in there \n\ngreat fight ", 
        "I can't wait for Jack Slack's analysis of this fight.", 
        "A little to over confident and had  his hands down.  ", 
        "Love the hand raise from Mcgregor at the end like \"that was nothing!\" xD", 
        "Yeah I watched this bit like 20 times! That \"come on then\" face. Nah, you don't want it, Conor, haha", 
        "I love Nate's 1-2 punch...right on the money each time.", 
        "He also said at the presser, \"It will be a first round KO\"\n\nWhich puts pressure on himself to finish it in one round.\n\nIt was basically a LW fight without the weight cut so there shouldn't be any excuses from either side.\n\nIn conclusion, I guess we can see Nate Diaz is the better fighter and his reach height and accuracy played a huge part in his victory.", 
        "I think this was a key moment.  I expected it.  I figured the fight would go about like this but Nate got hit more than I thought.  However, I now think Conor was right and the main problem was his energy.  He gassed the hell out before this punch and then just had no energy left at all.  Too much unnatural weight.  ", 
        "Agreed.  Personally first round, up until that point, Conor was owning the fight regardless of Diaz' slow start.  Conor can learn from this, train better, and preserve his energy better: I think he will capitalize next time.", 
        "I still think he loses to Diaz no matter what he does 8 out of 10 times.  Styles make fights and Diaz advantages will consistently give him the edge.\n\nConor would have to do more than rely on his boxing.  Diaz can always move backward against Conor and pull out of the way of his shots.  That is a tough advantage for Conor to overcome.", 
        "I think more body shots and kicks to Diaz' leading leg could help change that.  How the hell did RDA beat him?  It was decision but he kicked the leading leg and went for TD. ", 
        "Conor's frame it too naturally small honestly.", 
        "Nate said it best. He just needs time to warm up and the It all comes together. Long time Diaz brothers fan! I may be from So Cal, but we are all from Cailifornia! ", 
        "The second punch is almost instantaneous and just a powerful. Conor took two solid punches within a second. That was impressive", 
        "Conor fought well, he hit Nate with everything and hurt him badly. He knew Nate was tough and big, but I think he really knows what big and tough mean now, it redefined that for him. Back to 145  where he can merk smaller guys like he just got merked with the bigger boys.\n\nGreat fight, I was out of my seat yelling at the TV pissing off all my neighbors. I am pretty sure they think I am crazy screaming 209.. as an Australian that means nothing to most.", 
        "It was a pain to see Conor fight yesterday. So much raw talent, you can see it, but damn, I feel like he was waaaayyyy too cocky and didnt took the fight seriously. It's ridiculous how he just stayed on those punchs thinking he could take them, even in the first round he was doing it. \n\nConor need to get serious a little and polish his talent. It would be sad to see this gem lost.\n\nAlso, i'm now a Nate Diaz fan. What a performance, incredible ! I really think he deserve any fight he want. ", 
        "That fucking shrug!", 
        "taken down. anyone got a mirror?", 
        "Timing something something precision something something", 
        "Boxing fundamentals > precision something timing something", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/videos/comments/4827m7/conor_mcgregor_and_nate_diaz_dont_give_a_fuck/d0h95mm\n\nI knew McGregor would fuck it up.", 
        "This is pretty much an example of \"Precision beats power and timing beats speed\". Except, you know... This time Conor was on the receiving end. The whole buildup was him saying he felt stronger and saying he had the speed advantage over Diaz. He didn't deal well with the reach disrepancy and over reached a few times... basically all the things that he had prided himself on he threw to the side and tried to put on a show against a guy who he thought would definitely lose.", 
        "If Conor did his homework, he would have known the Diaz brothers like to grind things out with their 50-50 wear down boxing style and durability. Endurance and being able to absord hits are weapons in their own right in the octagon.", 
        "Yeah. I expected Conor to win because I believed the hype and thought he would be able to keep the pressure on Diaz but I expected a late tko or decision. (Edit) saying I fell for the hype makes me sound like I don't think Conor is an amazing fighter... which isn't true. I know he is awesome. I meant I bought into the invincible kind of thing. Although I was not looking forward to watching Lawler rip him apart.\n\nThe Diaz bros were two of the first fighters I binge watched when I started watching mma so I thought it was pretty obvious Nate wasn't getting put away early. Thomson obviously tkod him before but there Conor was never going to throw a roundhouse kick for Nate to lean into ", 
        "Last night I read post after post about how he gassed.  He never gassed, he got wobbled and never recovered.  Right up until that punch he was still lighting Diaz up like crazy.  ", 
        "He admitted himself that he got gassed...", 
        "Watch the fight again he stops cutting angles and has no bounce in the second round, his punches are lower and on the gloves more often too. You can see it in his corner after the first hes out of energy right there and then and stunned that Nate is still up and functioning.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Did you see how bloody Nate was? Conor landed some good ass shots. I thought the 1st was pretty close. Nate caught him and caught him good. That's what you saw.\n\nEdit: double post for some reason", 
        "Outclassed him lol", 
        "Did you see how bloody Nate was? Conor landed some good ass shots. I thought the 1st was pretty close. Nate caught him and caught him good. That's what you saw.", 
        "I wanted nate to win and think his comment was dumb.  Conor won R1 or it was at least very close.   Nate just won and finished in R2.  Conor landed some solid shots.  Don't  know how he made him \"look like a wrestler.\"  Conors ground game does need some work it looks.  I think taking this fight was just dumb, he fights just like Nate usually he out ranges  his opponents.", 
        "The wrestler comment is because Conor shot a desperation takedown, which is a thing he's mocked other people for doing before. Something like \"They all turn into wrestlers\" when he hits them. ", 
        "It's hard to say that his ground game needs work, like the only reason he shot for that takedown was out of desparation, he was fuuuucked. If he stays standing up he gets KO'ed, he tried to shoot for the takedown because he was so wobbly, Diaz stuffed it and finished him. ", 
        "This. Exactly. Even people at the party with me were questioning it... I'm explaining that he's just trying to survive after that left that rocked him. ", 
        "He won fair and square but let's not exaggerate. It was a great and competitive fight.", 
        "USA!", 
        "Man, McGregor was clearly gassed. I think he needs to keep his diet in check. That extra muscle fucked him up. Look how much he was moving vs Aldo in the first 13 seconds vs how he moved in the first minute here. Completely different.", 
        "He didn't gas, he got lit the fuck up by someone with no training camp on 10 day notice.", 
        "He was gassed homie. That extra muscle slowed him down and made him tired.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He was gassed. You drop your hands when you're gassed. He got tired, then got knocked hard and gave up a submission instead of giving up a tko", 
        "He should know better, boxers know instinctively to cover up when they get in trouble, it may not save them but it's a damn side better than leaving your chin out. I'm not surprised by Conor, hes got too much of a cocky attitude to cover up, hope he changes this.", 
        "Conor looked okay at the end there... but maybe he wasn't.  =/", 
        "\"Hand down, man down.\" -~~Mark Jackson~~ Kenny Florian", 
        "Conor was winning the fight. Picking Diaz apart landing nice shots. The fact that he kept his hands down was upsetting the entire fight. I was sitting there happy Conor was performing well in the first but thinking, man he should really probably start defending himself because he can't eat those shots. \n\nHe'll learn from this and be better. ", 
        "A guy in the pub actually managed to make it to his feet and scream, \"KO!\" Before Conor righted himself and wobbled rather than doing his best Aldo impression. I agreed, I thought Conor was legitimately knocked out there. ", 
        "That's why you keep your hands up when in range and lower them when you're not close to engaging. Was he not expecting Nate ton reach him from there?", 
        "God I hate Diaz. He should've dropped to Connors weight and fought. ", 
        "They weighed in the same bro. Diaz is a 155er", 
        "He agreed to it, Conor wanted it this way and he got smacked by a better fighter. End of story.", 
        "Maybe at that weight he is better. I can't stand Diaz. Just trying to make myself feel better. ", 
        "209 MOTHERFUCKER\nWHAT!?", 
        "What. I'm convinced if Diaz was in front of you with his dick out you would play with it. ", 
        "The whole point of this fight was so Connor could prove his worth at 155.  Connor wanted this weight Diaz just stepped in. This bed was completely made by Connor and he went night night in it.", 
        "Scripted. Typical boxing high purse rematch tactic. Throw the fight  against a weak opponent to later win a bigger purse for the highly touted rematch.  ", 
        "There is absolutely zero fucking chance that this fight was a work.", 
        "What, 3 major fights in the last 4 years? Yeah, uh huh. Just remember, it's not just both fighters that win huge here. McGregor doesn't care about that loss amount in his record, fighting is a short career, might as well the make the best out of it. The biggest winner is of course Diaz, the chosen one, and all he had to do was be the worst out of all McGregor's recent opponents. He struck gold. They win, corporations win and the Irish get to drink more Guinness, because of the loss and eventually because of the eventual rematch win. ", 
        "I want to argue this, but I don't even have the energy to explain how stupid and insane it is that you think the UFC marketing machine wants to make Nate Diaz a their \"chosen one\" and next multimedia superstar.  You are on angeldust", 
        "That's not my point. It could've been ANYONE. They just needed a weak opponent to lose the highly touted, the much hyped multi-billion dollar rematch that will happen later this year. It could've been ANYONE. Diaz was just the lucky one. McGregor allowing himself to lose in a choke hold? Are you kidding me? Of the millions of ways that McGregor could've lost this fight, choke hold would be in the 900k ways range. It just not plausible. And the choke hold is the easiest way to throw a fight. ", 
        "Man, I really hope you're trolling. Otherwise, you need therapy for paranoia or something.", 
        "It's a business, man; haven't you watched boxing at all in your entire life?", 
        "stick to video games, this forum is for people who understand fighting or train in one or many of the arts.", 
        "LOL ok internet MMA fighter.", 
        "http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2016/3/8/11177914/video-nate-diaz-wasnt-training-for-a-triathlon-before-ufc-196-he-was?_ga=1.201129129.603327136.1428323026", 
        "That guy is the worst poster boy since post-prison Mike Tyson. ", 
        "Is it too late to change the cover of UFC 2?", 
        "Diaz brothers on the cover.  \"EA UFC 2: FINALLY LEGAL\"", 
        "[This seems appropriate](http://imgur.com/cPvQMzv)", 
        "Holy fuck", 
        "Please start a topic with this so more people see it", 
        "That's fucking amazing", 
        "After tonight this cover is the one that makes the most sense.", 
        "That's way too cool for the EA game.\n\nNow, if it was the cover for UFC Undisputed 4, *now we're talking*.", 
        "Who do you want to curse?!", 
        "I'll bet a lot of money that no curse can stop Mighty Mouse.", 
        "Tim from Accounting. Mother*fuuuuck* that dude.", 
        "I feel like the Diaz brothers are immune to curses for some reason.", 
        "5 year suspension for pot is pretty curse-ish to me.", 
        "He did it to himself. Don't smoke marijuana when you have to take a drug test that tests for it.", 
        "Bro, shut up", 
        "He passed 2 tests from USADA the same day, which were more sensitive. NSAC railroaded him.", 
        "Ah, the self curse. The most cursey curse of them all.", 
        "Exept the main part of the Nicks case was that USADA tested Nick 3 times and said he was clean and the NSACs test was dodgey. \n\nHe didnt do shit to himself, the NSAC fucked it all up and tried their hardest to make it look like they didnt.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Calling it a curse reminds me of this.\n\nhttp://www.theonion.com/graphic/kennedy-curse-claims-life-of-77-year-old-tumor-rid-10188", 
        "haha, what", 
        "So people who say it helps their BJJ to smoke pot are bullshitting?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I don't think the athletic commissions should be in the business of deciding of the downsides outweigh the upsides of various drugs. Just ban any drug that can improve performance and ignore whatever the downsides are, it's so simple. If reaction times are fucked, that's also an argument to ban it because of fighter safety. I don't know if the way they test for it makes sense, but I find it hard to see why it should be allowed.", 
        "But then he broke the curse and is now back in August", 
        "Like August 2016?", 
        "Oh holy crap. I must have been  living in a cave when that news broke.\n\n18 months for pot is slightly less cursey.", 
        "Odd how he even got a fine. He passed 2 stringent tests and failed the less reliable one. ", 
        "18 months for not failing a WADA test is a curse haha", 
        "He can fight again around June or July I think ", 
        "August. He'll fight Lawlor. Bank. ", 
        "You mean Lawler", 
        "Damnit. Yes I do. ", 
        "Lawlor might be a huge draw by then, who knows?", 
        "Iconic. ", 
        "Ichronic ", 
        "This is as close to this as I have been. http://imgur.com/NYEA9OM Mugged in Oakland. ", 
        "storytime please.", 
        "Quit selling all them wolf tickets homie ", 
        "Is that cut from a punch? ", 
        "Nope, hidden pipe...", 
        "What the hell were you doing in Oakland?", 
        "Just checking out the bay. Honestly had a great time.", 
        "Looks like getting mugged", 
        "Being alive.", 
        "Iconic. ", 
        "You look slightly less victorious. I hope your mugger gets nut cancer.", 
        "damn what happened bro?", 
        "They stole his macbook and pumpkin spice latte\n\nEdit: all jokes a side... I love the \"gotta a take a photo of this\" attitude", 
        "I accidentally ran my small quadcopter into my face yesterday and it made a small cut on my lip which started to bleed a little. But did I take a picture to prove my manliness and for internet points? No.", 
        "That's because you flew your remote control helicopter into your face like a fucking dipshit. That's embarrassing. ", 
        "Yeah, well, I was drunk flying it on the porch in front of people and got a little out of hand. Shut up! =)", 
        "'Shit just got fucking mugged and my ass beat'\n\nSELFIE TIME! #Mugged #AssBeat #YOLO #WhateverBro", 
        "Had my livelihood, my camera in my backpack, didn't get it. Trying to be nice to strangers...", 
        "That's why I'm an old grumpy bitter asshole... [People what a bunch of bastards](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVSlE28hOgI&ab_channel=friggincanvy)", 
        "Guy asked for some change, was getting tacos for my friend and I and offered to get him some, gave me his order, lady came to the window, pulled out my wallet and he slipped a pipe out of his sleeve. Bout it.", 
        "wow what an asshole", 
        "hope they caught the guy.", 
        "Not that I know of.", 
        "Lol if he's talking about Oakland, California, fat chance anything gets done about it. This is the culture in Oakland: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eeVk3FgBETs\n\nThere are places in that city that have the cops absolutely shook. \n\nEdit: Just look up East Oakland sideshows here's another vid of people doing donuts in the middle of an intersection in broad daylight: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-4KiPyQbG8", 
        "Oakland's not that bad brah. Can't take a video from the riots and call that indicative. That's like using the hockey riots to say Vancouver's a really dangerous city.\n\nI mean I won't pretend like it's super safe either, but it's not like it's fucking mad max out here. I mean cops won't do anything about a standard mugging except file the report, but that's the same story in any big city.", 
        "I used to live in the bay and would go to the east side every now and then to visit friends or relatives. East Oakland is really bad. I've actually been to a couple sideshows but never again. Shit was fun until people start shooting because some guy looked at someone else the wrong way or was from another hood ect. Dudes are just trigger happy.", 
        "I mean, that's sideshows in East Oakland, man. It's gonna attract a gang element. I mean I live near downtown which is a nicer area and I'm certainly not gonna recommend anyone to just wander around East Oakland at night after a dubs game, but it's not like I walk around scared of being mugged/shot.\n\nWon't pretend like it doesn't have problems with crime and gangs, but it's nowhere near as bad as it used to be. All I'm saying is, I like it here, don't appreciate it being portrayed like some gang-ridden wasteland.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "My bad if you felt disrespected the way I portrayed your city, I was just telling from my experience and I ain't gonna lie lol. Last time I was in the east, I got checked by border brothers for wearing a niner hat. Dudes surrounded my whip and everything. Anyways, good to hear that the city isn't as bad as in the past though. ", 
        "I also had a great time there, awesome art, people, food and culture.  I walked and biked everywhere.", 
        "He was mugged", 
        "In Oakland.", 
        "Who?", 
        "In the ghetto,  in the gheeeeeeetoooooooo", 
        "In Oakland.", 
        "Now I'm driving up the 5\n\nand she waits till I arrive", 
        "Yes.", 
        "And this is Lloyd with Oakland ", 
        "Reminds me of \"Lloyd's Song\" by Fruition. First line is \"Sittin' on a rooftop in Oakland California\". https://fruition.bandcamp.com/track/lloyds-song", 
        "With his shirt on ", 
        "What part of the town ?", 
        "Telegraph and 20th? Ish, can't quite remember the streets. Close to the Fox theater.", 
        "I lived in SW Berkeley but spent a lot of time on Oakland.", 
        "Here is my contribution (NSFW if you're squeamish). http://imgur.com/a/yv3GM\n\nI had a rough day.", 
        "jesus wtf no", 
        "What happened?", 
        "I was involved in an altercation between my bicycle and a parked Jeep Grand Cherokee. ", 
        "That made me lol. I was expecting a violent beat-down or something. I guess the laws of physics can be way more brutal.", 
        "At the end of the day, I still feel like I won the fight. Only one of us walked away from that sidewalk.", 
        "ay, at least your face got some good shots in", 
        "jesus fuck dude glad you're okay goddamn", 
        "Hey thanks friend. ", 
        "Wooow those are some serious wounds ", 
        "Damn!", 
        "You should have taken your shirt off", 
        "Well, may as well take his shirt off now to make up for it, right?", 
        "Check, shirt less.", 
        "Less than what?", 
        "One shirt.", 
        "Eh, no one wants to see that. ;)", 
        "I do man, I do. ", 
        "I don't remember going to /r/bb", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/iS5gwqV.gifv", 
        "Yeah, can see this being posterized.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/E3NeID7.jpg  lazy attempt! ", 
        "The most vicious gazelle I have ever seen.", 
        "http://imgur.com/lUo74e1", 
        "majestic as fuck", 
        "Nobody even knows what that means, get it right.", 
        "Seriously, this is America.", 
        "But It's provocative,  it gets the people going.", 
        "Someone needs to draw a gazzelle RNCing a lion.", 
        "that would be the most badass tattoo ive ever seen, diaz needs this", 
        "> RNCing \n\nBeing an absolute clusterfuck, having some clown win and they still don't know what to do?", 
        "Haha I see what you did there. War Rubio ", 
        "?", 
        "RNC can be both rear naked choke or Republican National Caucus.", 
        "Oh ... I'm not from the US so I didn't get it, yeah, looks like trump is going to win.", 
        "Actually after last night I wouldn't bet on that. Hard weeks ahead of him, contested convention seems more likely.", 
        "Brokered, but whatever.", 
        "They were calling it contested the other night on the news too. Think it might be a thing.", 
        "Republican National Convention", 
        "Paging /u/Shitty_Watercolour", 
        "the rear naked choke in Portuguese is Mata le\u00e3o, which in English is Lion Killer", 
        "what.\n\nThat is fucking awesome now. ", 
        "Yeah I know, we call it *Mata leon* over here (Argentina).", 
        "There's something really early 2000s about the Diaz brothers.", 
        "I think you mean \"There's something really Stockton about the Diaz brothers.\"  I don't think that place progresses on the same timeline as the rest of the country.", 
        "It's because gangster isn't what's cool anymore. ", 
        "I don't get why everyone calls the Diaz brothers gangster lmao. They have a bad attitude sure, but definitely aren't gangsters.", 
        "Especially Conor. Wasnt he the one who came to a press conference dressed up as a Mexican druglord?", 
        "they're hood, not gangster.", 
        "Most people who haven't actually been to a hood don't know the difference. ", 
        "That's what sucks about being from Stockton ", 
        "All the local gangsters in my neighborhood teach children jiujitsu. ", 
        "They got strikeforce in their blood", 
        "I know what you mean. It's that rap rock hybrid nu metal era where everyone had Nate's facial hair.", 
        "Wearing jnco jeans and listening to Limp Bizkit.", 
        "i miss those days", 
        "Standing outside of a texaco with some metal mulisha shirts on and shit", 
        "Nate is literally repped by Metal Mulisha. ", 
        "I feel you on that. He looks like he'd be perfect on a PS2 game cover. ", 
        "Lion.", 
        "[Lion \\(DotA 2\\)](http://i.imgur.com/pZ4biDB.jpg)", 
        "[Lion!](https://youtu.be/fEjgiLiaeFQ?t=4s)", 
        "Wow. Nates got a dick like a fire hose.", 
        "Flat, rolled into itself, and awkward to carry?", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/sVBTd60.jpg", 
        "red panty night takes on a whole different meaning", 
        "So that's what a gazelle looks like. Huh TIL.", 
        "Well, what's left of the gazelle at least.", 
        "well played lol", 
        "Gracie jiujitsu motherfucker!", 
        "If I'm Nate I'm framing that picture and putting it outside my bedroom so every time Nick races to the kitchen to eat the last bowl of cereal or runs to the bathroom to use up the last of the hot water he has to pass it.", 
        "I would have said \"sneaks into the bedroom to steal that last joint\".", 
        "Two pro mma fighters with a shared pot stash. Fucking hilarious", 
        "I like to picture Nick and Nate living in a small block house on Stockton...with a bunch of weeds for a lawn and expensive vehicles parked on that lawn.", 
        "And the expensive vehicles just sit there bc they still ride their bikes everywhere.", 
        "Fair play to Nate, he really weathered the storm in that first round. Conor was putting everything he had into those shots, and clearly looked tired after that first round. I think he really believed he could sleep Nate if he landed that big left, but Nate just kept eating them, and took all of Conor's confidence away.\n\nI talked as much shit as anyone about the Diaz brothers leading up to this fight, but they're as tough as they come. Congrats to Nate.", 
        "Conor was battering him with that lead uppercut like he said he would, I'm not even a mcg fan but his striking still looked fantastic and would have slept a lot of people\n\nthe one standing advantage I really gave Diaz was that unlike a lot of UFC fighters his boxing style is very noncommittal so he can still get head movement coming off his strikes and you're rarely gonna hit him heavy coming in\n\nCan't wait to rewatch it, that was a fun fight on a largely boring card", 
        "Nate almost slap punches most shots, he's got a very peculiar style ", 
        "It kind of reminded me of the BJ vs Nick fight, in some ways. That first round, BJ was a demon and was really touching Nick up (at least, in my memory, I haven't watched the fight in a long time). \n\nBut it's got to be so demoralizing when you're hitting someone with all your best shots, at full power when you're fresh, and they're still there at the end just mean-mugging and inviting more.\n\nEdit: Words", 
        "The picture is so good it looks like Nate has been posing for it for a few minutes and this is the best one the photographer got or something. Crazy, crazy photo. Almost surreal... like it's some kind of promotional poster for a film or something... Only it's very much so in reality.", 
        "When I saw the photographer taking the shot I was praying he got in focus. Shit happened fast, that photographer nailed it.", 
        "Rogan-esque in the breakdown there.", 
        "Greatest picture in human history.", 
        "I can hear the \"209, WHAT!\" through the picture ", 
        "This needs a Straight Outta Stockton font layover.\n", 
        "I was thinking \"Kill or be killed\"", 
        "[This work?](http://i.imgur.com/zEDuj2t.jpg)\n\nEdit: A few people wanted the blood colourised, I didn't use photoshop, I used a website that does custom Straight Outta Compton parodies. \n\nHowever I asked /r/picrequests to do something and /u/arkangel06 made [this](http://i.imgur.com/FleiDMu.png) \n", 
        "That is fine work.", 
        "Fuck yeah", 
        "That's fucking fire. Poster quality", 
        "Make it smaller so you can see his whole face and, yeah, colorize his blood!", 
        "Unfortunately I didn't really photoshop this, I used a Straight Outta Compton Generator website.\n\nHowever I asked /r/picrequests to do something and /u/arkangel06 made [this](http://i.imgur.com/FleiDMu.png) \n\n\n", 
        "Thats awesome", 
        "now make everything black and white except for the blood", 
        "Unfortunately I didn't really photoshop this, I used a Straight Outta Compton Generator website.\n\nHowever I asked /r/picrequests to do something and /u/arkangel06 made [this](http://i.imgur.com/FleiDMu.png) ", 
        "Fucking savage. The way he got up off Conor after submitting him with his face covered in blood is all you need to know about Nate. Imo this kind of savagery/will is something Conor won't ever have.... He's still my boy tho.", 
        "You think Conor doesn't have savagery or will? He just moved up 25lbs to fight a short notice opponent after KOing Jose Aldo in 13 seconds. ", 
        "And lost like a sissy for Nate Diaz who is not nearly one of the best in this division.", 
        "At welterweight or Lightweight? At Lightweight I think he will be RDA in a rematch. ", 
        "This was a lightweight fight without cutting weight the day before. It's literally almost the exact weight they would have fought at for lightweight. They dehydrate to cut the day before then would have hydrated back to around 165. If it was ACTUALLY a welterweight fight they would have weighed 180-185 by fight time. ", 
        "McGregor's walk around weight is 163, he didn't \"gain\" 25 lbs, he fought at what he walks around at, Same for Nate. ", 
        "Then why could Conor make 155 but Nate couldn't? Since you know, they weighed the same.", 
        "Nate was in the middle of training for a triathlon, how much more weight do you think he could lose in a healthy fashion with only 11 days notice considering he was already training intensely? Dude wasn't sitting around at home eating Cheetos and drinking beer. ", 
        "Short notice, no camp, seems reasonable. Besides, it gave Conor the chance to prove how badass he is with all his talk of moving on up.\n\nGuess Conor's got a ceiling now.", 
        "... because Conor was in camp for a fight at 155. I'm an unapologetic Conor nut-hugger but cop on lad", 
        "And Diaz was training for a triathlon. My argument is that Diaz was much bigger than Conor. How is that wrong? Wasn't it pretty clear during the fight? If he could only cut as low as 165 he was obviously pretty big. Much bigger than Conor who would have no issue cutting to 155. ", 
        "They were within 5 lbs. I guarantee you Connor gave up less weight tonight than Frankie has in all of his fights at lightweight. He bought into his own hype and went for the KO (props to him for not pulling a Carlos condit here) and when the pressure got put on him, he crumbled. He gassed from a combination of throwing nothing but power punches/kicks and getting jabbed in the face which disrupts your breathing. ", 
        "Well it would be my opinion that Nate used the weight thing as a bargaining chip to get more money", 
        "He also called for the weight in an attempt to be cocky ", 
        "No, Nate said he could only make 165. If Nate could have made 155 they would have fought there. ", 
        "It helps the downvotes if you link a source for your claim.", 
        "What claim? That Diaz couldn't make 160?", 
        "Funny how the script is being flipped to make it seem like Connor was the one  at a disadvantage .\n\nDIAZ was the one who took this fight on short notice  with NO training camp .\n\nConnor was the one who asked for 170 , not diaz.\n\nConnor wasn't fighting a welterweight here , this fight was essentially a lightweight fight between two guys  near their walk around weight .\n", 
        "How in the fuck do you get upvoted for this? \n\nConor did not ask for 170. Diaz refused 155, 160, 165. So Conor said \"make him comfortable at 170.\"\n\nConor moved up to accommodate Diaz. He had been training for a 155 fight with RDA. \n\nGet your facts straight. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "get YOUR facts straight.", 
        "Most of them are, according to your article. Especially my thesis. ", 
        "Straight out of conors mouth. Facts my fucken ass man. Stop believing everything McGregor says. ", 
        "You are telling me, that Conor just wanted 170 out of nowhere? There was no negotiating for 160 and 165? \n\nYou do realize they began by looking for a 155 substitute right?", 
        "http://mmajunkie.com/2016/03/video-dana-white-confirms-nate-diaz-asked-for-165-pounds-conor-mcgregor-told-him-170", 
        "Rekt", 
        "How do I get that sweet 209 flair? I'm kinda close from the 559, lol", 
        "On the right under the submit link/text there is a link for select flair.  Click that and scroll down ", 
        "you're  delusional bud http://mmajunkie.com/2016/03/video-dana-white-confirms-nate-diaz-asked-for-165-pounds-conor-mcgregor-told-him-170", 
        "Ok, I made a mistake in saying that Diaz refused 165, but that article says right there, precisely what I am saying: this fight should have been at 155. Diaz refused. Then they tried to accomodate Diaz at 160. And he refused again. \n\nDiaz counters at 165, and Conor tells him \"make him comfortable at 170\".\n\nWhat is \"delusional\" about what I said? The point is, Diaz refused two different weights, including the original weight this fight was supposed to be at (155). Conor MOVED UP from 155, to 170 to accommodate Nate. ", 
        "But if the fight was at 155 it's exactly the same fight. The only difference is they both dehydrate themselves the day before. They both would have been up to around 165-170 by fight day anyways. This is what happens when conor fights people his size ", 
        "No it's not. Rogan said that, and everyone else here is regurgitating it. \n\nConor's body was showing visible changes from 145->155. And he showed an even larger visible change preparing for this fight at 170. According to him, he has been eating a lot more than usual. Take his word for what you will, but I believe he has been trying to put on weight, and it shows. \n\nNate, on the other hand, said he actually lost weight in Mexico after getting \"sick\" (more likely referring to food poisoning) to come down to this weight. \n\nSo not only is Conor moving up to Nate's more natural weight, but he has less time to have his body adjust to all the mass he gained. \n\nIf you don't believe me, Dominic Cruz said the same thing, and all the other pundits (including Edgar) seemed to agree. Not only that, but all of those fighters also agreed that Conor was moving up in weight. \n\nYou can believe all the BS being regurgitated around here, or Rogan's remark which wasn't meant to be taken absolutely seriously. But I will take the word of Cruz and all those other fighters any day. Also go back to all the threads showing Conor's gains from 155->170. No one was saying \"Conor looks the same. That's just his walking weight.\"\n\nI specifically remember the thread about how jacked his thighs got. The guy put on a LOT of muscle. Anyone who denies that is just regurgitating shit. ", 
        "No, you are. This is pretty much what he'd have weighed on fight night if he weighed in at 155. He didn't bulk up for this fight. He bulked up for RDA. My point is yeah, he gained weight, but it was to make 155 and have strength for RDA. If he weighed in at 155 for RDA, his rehydration would put him right around 165-168 for fight night. Which is exactly where he and nate just fought. If it was a real welterweight fight they would have weighed 185 by fight night. Fighters do not fight at weigh in weight. ", 
        "So that's incorrect. Nate turned the fight down at 155, 160 and finally settled for 165 which isn't even a weight class so conor said just go 170.\n\nAlso Diaz had a fought like 2 months prior, and was training for a triathlon. Camps are irrelevant when both fighters are in shape and recently fought. \n\nConor isn't making excuses but he easily could have pulled out from the fight, which is the difference between him and everyone else.", 
        ">. Camps are irrelevant when both fighters are in shape and recently fought. \n\nCamps are never irrelevant. If they were at any point irrelevant, fighters wouldn't have camps. ", 
        "OK, what is the purpose of a camp in your opinion? ", 
        "To get into fight shape and to get accustomed to fighting with sparring sessions, submission drills, wrestling drills and what have you. \nNate Diaz kept mentioning his lack of sparring for a reason. \n\nYou're not smarter than the top MMA fighters and their camps. ", 
        "Buddy... Don't argue just for the sake of arguing.", 
        "It's called a probing question. I have a point to my argument. Don't just respond for the sake of responding.", 
        "You sound like a fucking idiot. Just stop. ", 
        "That is your opinion mate. Just so you all know, I put money on Nate to win by submission. I'm not a McGregor fan boy, I am just sick of people thinking that Nate wasn't prepared for the fight.", 
        "Camps are NOT irrelevant. Dominic Cruz asked Nate how the hell he did this without camp. You could see the respect on the guys face. Cruz said it himself, he gets all his confidence from his camp, and he could not undferstand how Nate did it without one, on a 10 day notice. This is not some guy, this is a Champion saying \"I could not have done what you did without a proper camp\". Camps matter.", 
        "A camp refers to a fight preparing for a fight, correct?\n\nConor had the same time to prepare for the fight against nate as nate did. Dos Anjos is a completely different fighter.\n\nAlso, Nate fought like 60 days ago, he was fight ready anyway.", 
        "Diaz said he couldn't make 155. If he could have the fight would have happened there. It was short notice for both opponents. Im not trying to take away from Diaz. Conor is still champ though, lets just see if Diaz can get that 155lb belt. ", 
        "> Diaz said he couldn't make 155.\n\nBecause of time constraint. They both weighed in the same for the fight and I doubt either of them cut any weight.\n", 
        "Like I said above, I have personally cut 10lbs in hours, Diaz could cut 15lbs in a couple of days no problem. You lose 1lb every half hour if you cut properly. ", 
        "You'll just never understand how wrong you are I guess. God damn...", 
        "Explain to me why Diaz, who was training for a triathlon, couldn't cut 15lbs in 11 days? That's not a difficult cut. He was obviously at least 180 in the fight if he could only cut to 165. Where am I wrong? ", 
        ">  I have personally cut 10lbs in hours,\n\nThere are proper ways of cutting and there are cuts like you did. If Diaz had time he would have done a proper cut instead of damaging his kidneys with massive water starvation.\n\n> Diaz could cut 15lbs in a couple of days no problem\n\nJust because you can cut 10 lbs in a day doesn't mean you can cut 15lbs in two days. There is only so much water your body retains that you can cut out.\n\nBy your logic it seems I should be able to cut 200 lbs in a few months which would make me disappear.", 
        "Pretty much anyone who wrestles varsity in HS cuts 5-10lbs in hours. Its not uncommon. I say days because although Diaz could do it in a day, the proper way would take a few days for 15lbs. ", 
        "Yeah and everybody knows being a high school wrestler is the same thing as still doing it when you're 30 years old and fighting the best in the world.  ", 
        "There isn't much different about it. The only difference should be that he does it much better. ", 
        "So what ? this was simply two lightweights who didn't cut weight . Connor wasn't fighting an actual welterweight who would come in over 180 lbs  the night of the fight .let's not pretend that Connor  made some ridiculous weight jump and fought  Goliath .\n\nThe reality is that he made a very reasonable weight jump for his frame  and got stopped  by a predictable , feather fisted, and inconsistent lightweight contender .\n\n ", 
        "Yes diaz is a 155'er but the fight is a lot different at 155 than 170. Maybe conor doesn't get gassed at 155. Maybe there isn't as much power behind nate's shot at 155 and it doesn't wobble him. ", 
        "Conor hit Nate clean.  Nate hit him clean.   I doubt 15 lbs would of changed the outcome when they both weighed in at 168 and 169 respectively.   If there was a 15 lb difference at weigh in then your point might be valid but there wasn't.  Also Conor didn't gas,  he got hit. ", 
        "Yes, he got hit, and i mostly agree with what you said about the weight, I disagree that he didn't gas though. He came out throwing huge power punches in the first and won the round because of it, but got tired and stopped throwing them in the second after he realized they werent going to knock nate out, he started to clown too, which gave nate an oppourtunity to catch him with a shot and he did.", 
        "If he did indeed gas then his conditioning wasn't attuned to his size.   He would of known this before suggesting a 170 lb fight.   Poor conditioning would of been apparent in all the training sessions leading up to this. . Its really unlikely IMO that he would risk that.  He was prepared.  It was Nates chin and inability to be affected by the mind games that McGregor underestimated. ", 
        "Mind games dont mean much, just all talk and media making something out of nothing. Nates chain certainly met something though. Conor definitely wobbled him a couple times in round 1.\n\nWould his poor conditioning really have been shown though? I feel like its tough to really understand the effect the extra weight would have in your training sessions with such a short time period. And of course training is different than what happens inside the cage.\n\nAnd thats exactly what I mean though. Conor fought at 170 when his body wasnt ready to make that jump. You say he wouldnt have risked it but thats exactly what he did. He should have never suggested it but I respect him for taking it. Like he d\nsaid hes not a pussy. A lot of guys never would take that risk. He bit off more than he could chew.", 
        "I guess what I'm saying if you are a professional you train to fight five rounds at the suggested weight.   What you are saying about Conor is even more arrogant and reckless than him just getting hit. ", 
        "You'd think not having to cut weight would be more beneficial for your gas tank .", 
        "i think putting on an extra 15 pounds in like 10 days hurt conor a lot more than it helped him to be honest. \n\nIts really difficult to jump up 25 pounds in less than 3 months and expect to maintain the same level of cardio you had before. Imo he needed more time to make the jump, i thought that before the fight too. Granted these guys are pros and they should adapt to that and not use it as an excuse but your body and cardiovascular system need more time than less than 2 weeks to adjust to fighting at 15 pounds higher than what you were training for. Thats a lot of extra weight that you have to throw with every punch.\n\nOn the flip side Nate only had 2 weeks to prepare too but it was at a weight he is used to fighting at and one that is good for his frame.\n\nIts like biking a tour de France stage. Guys with less weight have to carry less weight up the mountain, and can go longer because of it.\n\nedit: Why am i being downvoted? after watching lauzons video and carwins post i made the same points as them lol.. ", 
        "Woah woah, I don't think he literally put on 10+ lbs in 10 days. It's that he didn't cut that weight. There's no way he was already down to 155...", 
        "Yeah thats a good point. Still 145 - 170 inside the octagon is a lot for your cardio to adjust to in less than 3 months, regardless of weight cutting. Fighting at 170 as opposed to 145 is a lot different than walking around at 170 as opposed to 145. Training to fight at 170 is different than training to fight at 145 or even 155, your body needs to adjust to carrying that extra weight. Especially at the highest level against fighters like nate. i think we saw that tonight and I think thats a big part of why he lost. He got gassed after the 1st which opened him up to being caught.", 
        "Diaz couldn't make Lightweight. He wasn't a lightweight. Its not that hard to understand.\nEdit: \"feather fisted\"? Really? You are delusional. There is no way you have fought a round of anything in your life. ", 
        "You're the one who seems to be having a hard time understanding weight cutting .\n\nThe average lightweight CUTS to 155  and usually comes in around 165-170 the night of the fight .\nThe average Welterweight CUTS to 170 and usually comes in over 180 then night of the fight .\n\nDIAZ was 169 last night, which is right around the average fight  weight of a lightweight . You think GSP , lawler , or any welterweight contender shows up at 169 the night of the fight ? \n\nAnd apparently i'm delusional for thinking that the guy who had 2 stoppages from strikes in a decade might not be the hardest hitting fighter around ..", 
        "What you are not understanding is that Diaz cut weight last night. If he actually weighed 169 he would have made the cut to 155 or 160 rather than 165 or 170.", 
        "I've heard him mention that he walks around 170-175 when he moved back to 155 a couple of years ago , so the weight cut was minimal to say the least . i'd be shocked if he weighed more than 5 pounds above the disclosed 169. \n\nThe point is simply that  Diaz walks around   lower weight than the average welterweight  and was around the same  fight weight as some of the bigger/mid-size 155 fighters . Connor wasn't taking on a full fledged welter in this fight  and was hardly undersized himself .", 
        "It's definitely possible that he only cut 5lbs, I just think that if he actually was 170-175 he wouldn't have said no to 160. ", 
        "Fighting with an extra 25 pounds on you makes a huge difference. By the way Conor was gassed after the first round you could tell that's what was going on. ", 
        "He wasn't fighting with an extra 25 pounds tho. it's not like he came in at 145 the night of the fight at featherweight .\n\nWhat actually went on is that he simply got tagged by a good boxer and couldn't recover . he was clearly outworking Nate and busting up his face up until that point . you want to chalk that up to gassing because of the weight ? such a convenient excuse .\n\nDehydration is a bigger factor when it comes to gas tank . the 145 cut was much more taxing for his body than fighting near his natural walk around weight .", 
        "Yeah he wasn't coming in at 145 but it would be close to 155. That's still an extra 15 pounds. He's never been in a fight at 170. That extra weight does make a huge deal. Fighters are extremely dehydrated when they cut that's for sure but the day of the fight they've almost completely rehydrated. I honestly think the extra 15 pounds is what gassed him. I think that was a bigger deal then cutting. You never see Connor has out at 145-155. You could clearly see he was gassed. He was winning the fight before the submission. Before he got tagged you could see he stopped moving as well as he does and his hands were dropping. He was breathing heavily out of his mouth. Like he said, he wasn't efficient with his energy. ", 
        "I'm sorry but this whole thing sounds like  nothing more than an excuse . Connor and his team were telling us   that he's the best he's even been at this weight ,and he himself didn't resort to the weight excuse .\n\nThe notion of losing Stamina by moving up a bit in weight ( ie cutting less ) sounds counter intuitive to me and highly debatable to say the least. \n\nConnor looks like absolute death at 145   and with the IV ban there is no way he'll be 100% rehydrated ( the IV isn't enough to begin with ) . \n\nI'll maintain that we saw was simply  a case of connor facing someone he didn't have ridiculous physical advantages over . someone he couldn't hurt ,and someone who could deliver precise and  stinging shots  he couldn't take .", 
        "Still not enough evidence that what we saw was caused by the weight .\n\nIt could simply be a case of Connor chasing the KO a bit too much and getting tagged by precise shots in the process , could've happened at any weight .\n\nConnor and his camp were telling us  he's the best he's even been at this weight  , and he himself didn't resort to that excuse after the fight .\n\nThe notion of losing stamina by moving up a bit in weight sounds counter intuitive and highly debatable to say the least.", 
        "I'm getting tired of all these guys trying to make excuses for Conor. I've been a big fan of McGregor since his first fight in the UFC, but nate was just a better fighter and whooped his ass last night. ", 
        "That's not true though. Conor won the first round with his boxing. He just has shit cardio and blew himself out. When you're fighting a guy with a granite chin and amazing cardio it's a major risk to go all out in the first round. If you don't take them out you're done as we saw. ", 
        "One could say he's an asswhooper! A whooper of asses.", 
        "Bigger and better all around.", 
        "  He pretty much admitted that in the post-fight interview, no idea why so many people are making excuses for him. He got beat by a better fighter, it happens. Hopefully he'll learn a thing or two from it. ", 
        "Audience: Nate whooped his ass\n\nConor: Nate was efficient with his energy", 
        "Well he said he lost due to energy management. But we all saw him get rocked hard and outboxed, which had only a little to to do with energy. ", 
        "It has lot to do with it, if he has no energy then he's less active and punches are more effective if you're tired. If he had more energy he would've probably could've escaped. Not taking away anything from Nate though. Conor fully admitted his defeat while being humble\n and I have respect for that.", 
        "Mcgregor was pretty active until he got rocked by that straight. Fight should have been a tko. Mcgregor didn't want to get punched anymore, so he quit and went for the take down.", 
        "Uhh.. Conor whooped on Diaz in the first round badly. Like really badly. It's just that Diaz can take a shot and conor can't.", 
        "Nah it was pretty even. Connor definitely threw some bombs, but they didn't rock Nate any more than Nate's good shots wobbled Connor in that round.", 
        "Punch a brick wall that throws bricks. That was Conor's experience last night. \n\nBe a brick wall that throws bricks at a meatbag. That was Nate's experience last night.", 
        "That was my impression too after watching the fight, but after watching it again the first round was actually pretty even. Nate slipped nearly all of Conor's shots and took very few cleanly (and Nate got a takedown). I still think Conor won the round, but it was close. Conor actually had more success with clean shots in the second round, but unfortunately for him so did Nate. ", 
        "LOL go watch Round 1 again and look at the fight metric for it, the statistics were even and Nate was blocking most of the shots.\n\nI mean DAMN, Nate with NO TRAINING CAMP destroyed touch butt conor", 
        "NO CAMP SLAPPED TOUCH BUTT", 
        "Conor won the first and was on his way to winning the second. However, Conor either got cocky or tired but he let his guard down and that was all it took for Diaz to rock him with a punch. After that the tide turned and it was over.\n\nEdit: Downvote? Is that not what happened?", 
        "Conor was not winning the second.", 
        "he was on his way. ", 
        "Watch it again.\nhttp://www.mma-core.com/videos/Nate_Diaz_Corner_Audio_Round_2_UFC_196/10123864", 
        "Up until Diaz landed that left he absolutely was.", 
        "Watch it again.\nhttp://www.mma-core.com/videos/Nate_Diaz_Corner_Audio_Round_2_UFC_196/10123864", 
        "You probably got downvotes cos it reads as if you're saying Diaz was lucky. But I know what you're saying and I agree ", 
        "Well he probably didn't know why he lost at that moment. He'd just been beaten for the first time in years, it's reasonable to assume he was a bit all over the place. I wouldn't at all be surprised if he watches the tape after this and goes \"oh yeah that's the point I got fucked up. I see how he beat me\" you don't have guys in interviews on a football pitch saying we lost because we are bad players... It's all \"hunger\" and other cliches. ", 
        "He failed to manage to miss the energy transferred through Nate's left hand!", 
        "Both things are true. Conor has fallen in love with the left hand, had some success early and was clearly winning the first round. But Nate was getting the timing down and making the left miss more and more. But Conor just kept throwing it like a brick, whiffing and wearing himself out, and once he started slowing down Diaz started landing more and more counters. Then Diaz started just walking through the slow left hand and landing 2, 3 punch combos, and Conor got that \"I'm fucked\" look in his eye, started getting rocked, and went for the desperate takedown.", 
        "I loved when Nate was \"I didn't win because of energy.... I won because I'm a better boxer, martial artist, and mma\". Something along the lines anyway.  The energy management excuse just sounds like a cop out to me.", 
        ">I am a better MMA\n\nMy sides", 
        "I think I was still a bit drunk when I typed that out. lol.  \n\n[Here's the response that I was referring to.  Time stamped at 31:34](https://youtu.be/YF2XeXbJk0U?t=1894)", 
        "What a great night. Did you have a great night? I did. We all did. Love this sport.", 
        "I did as well.", 
        "Mixed martial artist...tough one to figure out. ", 
        "I get it, and it isn't wrong, but obviously our brains hear *\"arts\"* first, before we connect the context a split second later. I now sarcastically assert that that is also tough to figure out, SIR.", 
        "I hope Conor is sending some expensive coffee over to the Diaz house this morning.", 
        "I was really hoping one of nates cornermen had a cup of joe at the ready that he could bring over after the fight. ", 
        "I think if the Diaz bros took all their fights seriously enough, they'd be champions at some point in their careers. ", 
        "They just have to incorporate kicks and their ground game more. They have high level striking and jujitsu. They just don't use all their tools. ", 
        "Nick could be the 170 champ if he was fighting.", 
        "Hopefully he'll get more of a look in now", 
        "Agreed.  I don't always like the Diaz brothers, but those boys are talented as fuck and Nate just seems to get better every time we see him.", 
        "I don't see how you could argue they didn't take their title fights seriously. The Diaz bros still have holes in their game", 
        "Nick was the welterweight champion in Strikeforce. I believe IFC as well", 
        "He was WEC WW champ before Zuffa bought it.", 
        "I just pictured Nick ripping through the ranks of Invicta... It was pretty funny, you guys.", 
        "There are folks who say that it is not in human nature to be violent. But when I look at pictures like this, even I - a guy who's never been in a real fight - kinda want my face to be covered in my own blood as I stand over my fallen foe, because I can definitely see the appeal in it. Diaz looks alive in a way that I doubt I've ever felt.", 
        "You need to start out small, maybe slap someone you know a little, then run off, then build your way up!", 
        "join an MMA club and get into some amateur fights.", 
        "Start a fight club", 
        "Shh", 
        "Fuck that, this is my fight club. I make the rules. \n\nRule 1 - Talk about Fight Club", 
        "His name is Conor McGregor. ", 
        "Not in human nature to be violent? sounds like some people slept through all of their history classes ", 
        "[This made me immediately think of this [OC]](http://imgur.com/rI5xoiW)", 
        "Stockton, bitch! ", 
        "Damn, it feels good to be a gangsta.", 
        "Gangster as fuck.", 
        "Looks like a Sum 41 album cover", 
        "Could I propose that people who post pictures like this also post the name of the photographer and link to the outlet the photographer works for? Cageside photographers work really hard and they deserve to get credit for their work.", 
        "From the angle, it looks to be somebody employed by the UFC (since Media can't stand on the side of the cage), and those images are normally credited as \"Courtesy of UFC\".", 
        "You're asking too much. Redditors don't even credit other Redditors for reposted content; there's no way a photographer would be credited. It's a sad truth.", 
        "Shut the fuck up with that shit, people get credited all the time. Don't shut down a request \"because this is Reddit.\" You could have done a reverse image search in less time than it took you to type out your waste of a comment. Don't call Reddit shifty and then be part of the problem.", 
        "you mad bro?\n\n", 
        "King of skinny fat ", 
        "Exactly what I thought!  Looks like a normal guy with a bit too much fat but fuck can he fight! ", 
        "Hands down my new favorite Mma pic of all time. ", 
        "This picture perfectly sums up why I love this sport so much...just look at that mug!!!", 
        "remind me of [this](http://imgur.com/Cpk5lVv) for some reason", 
        "I love how he dissed conors prediction. He told conor that he hoped that his prediction was right for conors sake, but that Nate himself didnt believe it. I think that really shook conor", 
        "Ninja shit homie", 
        "Those red jacketed fuckers are so annoying.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Always trying to interrupt celebrations.", 
        "I fucking love it.", 
        "Any videos regarding the post conference? ", 
        "it's on their YouTube channel", 
        "badass", 
        "He could use this pic for an album cover if he ever decides to get in the hip hop game", 
        "http://m.imgur.com/zU6PWJ9", 
        "In the words of the great Mike Goldberg \n\n\"So you want to be a ultimate fight\"", 
        "Tried moderately hard to find the source of this image but haven't been able to do it. I've seen it posted in a few places but even with a reverse image search I can't find its origin.", 
        " http://i.imgur.com/XGFCq19.jpg ", 
        "The front page this morning was the actual spoiler.", 
        "Nate is now king of the midgets.", 
        "Lol I immediately set this as my phone's wallpaper. Thanks OP!", 
        "Sidebar pic?", 
        "2 0 FUCKING 9", 
        "So fucking metal!", 
        "Someone who knows how to edit wiki go fix Conors lol. It says this\n\n\"McGregor was taken down several times by Diaz and was unable to counter his opponent's ground game. He lost the fight via submission in the second round.\"", 
        "STOCKTON MOTHAFUCKA", 
        "Someone should make this a shirt, maybe with the caption:\n\n\"I'm not surprised motherfuckers\"", 
        "\"I see a weak mid-section.\" ", 
        "COME GET SOME!", 
        "Does anyone else think nate will fail the post fight drug test?", 
        "I want a poster of this", 
        "I made this my desktop background.\n\nIt's hard to avoid the gym when you see it.", 
        "Funny. I have a picture very similar to this from my last pro fight.", 
        "/u/Rewnie looking for an awesome pic for an animated gif?", 
        "Could be very cool! I will see if I can do something cool with it later, when I have some time.", 
        "One of the best photos EVER in MMA/FIGHTING history.\n\nThis will be an iconic one for eons to come!\n\nEONS I TELL YA!", 
        "Conor has very low threshold tolerance for pain, his choke loss against duffy, he tapped super fast, in this fight, he gave up his back as soon as the first flurry came in, then he tapped as soon as nate got the choke.", 
        "...if there's no way out it doesn't help to last some seconds longer to proof that you are tough...", 
        "The first flurry? He ate a huge hook from being mounted. ", 
        "I think that he shot the takedown and gave up the sub because I was worried about getting knocked out. A KO would mean a huge lay off, a tap means he can get a fight in quick, probably at 200.", 
        "Yeah he was done after he got rocked, and I think he knew that himself when Diaz kept coming. If he had defended himself better who knows, he definitely had the first round and probably the second up until the one two from diaz. \n", 
        "Exactly. He was gassed from throwing bombs (to be fair, he fucked Diaz face up big time) and was rocked, quite clever from him because another win in the next few months and his narrative can keep rolling. A KO would derail everything.", 
        "Not just that, he was badly gassed. Watch how quick Cain tapped to werdum. If you are already oxygen deprived it doesn't take long.", 
        "Are you saying he is thinking about UFC 200 while he is getting punched in the face? I don't think so.", 
        "For real, foh wit dat dickriding shit", 
        "No I'm saying it's probably better to get tapped rather than KOd", 
        "People still don't have thought processes that complex or forward thinking while someone is sitting on their chest punching them in the face, especially after getting rocked.\n\nHe panicked a bit, even he admitted it", 
        "\"..the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience \nbut how he stands up when he's faced with challenges and obstacles. true champions are not born, they are built...\"  -DC", 
        "Arlovski please knock this bitch out. ", 
        "wrong post.", 
        "Oh what? I thought I was looking at the pic of overeem and sage at 196. That's a trip. Thanks bro. This probably made no sense to a lot of people. ", 
        "Agreed amazing picture of main event winner, but also you can tell who the winner is by the thumbnail. ", 
        "If you don't know to avoid this sub until after you've seen the fights on fight night it's your own damn fault. ", 
        "I only Reddit through an app that I only recently found out doesn't do the whole \"spoiler\" thing. I thought I was doing op a solid at the time I wrote that comment.", 
        "i believe you gotta enable the subreddit style. with a spoiler tag it should only show a picture of rogan", 
        "Is that available on Reddit is Fun? Or any other mobile app? I don't Reddit through the desktop version. ", 
        "oh, im not sure. i use reddit sync for mobile, and it doesnt have it. it might be buried in the settings somewhere, but i dont know man", 
        "No, the spoiler tag doesn't work on the app. ", 
        "Not an MBA fan,  but you realize the thumbnail shows a spoiler,  and people browse /r/all right?   The spoiler tag is useless. ", 
        "Mixed basketball arts?", 
        "Mixed balloon animals", 
        "its an active feature in the sub though that covers spoiler thumbnails", 
        "And it still shows up in /r/all.  Meaning you're alienating anyone who wants to get into MMA and doesn't run Reddit Enhancement Suite to be able to filter from /r/all, which they would only know to do after being spoiled.\n\nIt's bad for business.  But you guys keep doing what you're doing.  I was trying to be nice.  Guess I know what the type of people are in this subreddit now.", 
        "hey man I didn't downvote, was just letting you know, the spoiler tag is a feature we use in the sub\n\npeople like posting the gifs and we get good discussion out of them, plus anyone who couldn't buy the card but wants to get the highlights in real time ignores the spoilers and wants updates\n\nand for people in /all who are interested in getting into MMA are probably not shielding themselves from spoilers on an active card", 
        "> and for people in /all who are interested in getting into MMA are probably not shielding themselves from spoilers on an active card.\n\nAnd fans of MMA who haven't seen the match that browse /r/all?  Should they just filter out the subreddit by default so they never see any posts because the spoiler rules aren't sensible?\n\nAgain, this doesn't affect me.  It's just bad spoiler policy.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Go join an MMA club. It's very fun, and not as bad as it looks :)", 
        "Consent for one thing. He knows he wants to be in the ring. Beyond that, real bad cuts will get a fight stopped. That cut wasn't that bad, just went on long enough to be that covered.", 
        "You're not funny ", 
        "Animals can't give consent, you nitwit.\n\n\"Why can I buttfuck a girl but not a dog, wtf\"", 
        "Lol get a hold of this guy^\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He turned into a panic wrestler. There was nothing else to do after Nate started hurting him.", 
        "Amazing picture of a fighter who won like a bitch...", 
        "how does the salt taste?", 
        "There's no salt.. just fucking stupidity everywhere..", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What the hell is this, come kind of comment bot spewing random shit from other comments?", 
        "Sagefried and Roid", 
        "Holy shit that's funny well played.", 
        "That joke is a 2-division champion, right there.", 
        "that should be the title of this post.", 
        "P4p goat joke right here", 
        "Jokes this good is why we need a monthly \"Best Of\" post on this sub", 
        "Great title", 
        "Sage looks like screech", 
        "Sage looking like he's Overeem's twink.", 
        "Nah, Overeem is Sages powerbottom", 
        "Reem lacks the stamina.", 
        "Hes a powerbottom", 
        "Now, I heard speed has something to do with it...\n", 
        "Oh my goodness", 
        "Looks like Overeem purchased him for the night.", 
        "Will they drink the same water together?", 
        "\"A reach-around? Yes sir, Mr. Overeem, sir.\"", 
        "Ah, the video always makes me cringe... yes sir", 
        "Link?", 
        "Politeness? Yuck, how cringey /s", 
        "This literally had me laughing all day. Thank you. ", 
        "\ud83d\udc4d", 
        "Keep going guys. I'm getting there.", 
        "Overeem has a David Blaine vibe, Sage is straight Copperfield. ", 
        "Actually Sage it's in a Siegfried & Roy vibe", 
        "you nailed it. ", 
        "*gay Copperfield", 
        "Gavid Copperfield", 
        "Gob*. He's already practicing his illusions Michael", 
        "CUCK A CAW\nCUCK A CAW", 
        "They're illusions, a trick is something a whore does for money", 
        "*It's the FINAL COUNTDOOOOWN!*", 
        "Sage's hairstyle is older than he is.", 
        "That hair is nothing next to that shirt. ", 
        "It's so bad.", 
        "Isn't he 18? I cringe when I remember my hair cuts at that age ", 
        "Everyone's hair style is older than they are.", 
        "You're on steroids", 
        "Hey, there's nothing wrong with being an Offspring fan. ", 
        "http://starecat.com/content/wp-content/uploads/barber-what-kind-of-haircut-do-you-want-just-fuck-my-shit-up.jpg", 
        "Dude's image is all over the world and there isn't a single cunt to tell him that", 
        "They probably do but the guy doesn't give a shit clearly", 
        "Have you seen Sages body? The people that matter don't care.", 
        "I feel like Sage in real life would be the most annoying person to criticize cause he'd just nod, smile and make you feel dumb the more animated you got. ", 
        "It's like the Nazis created a super soldier, froze him, thawed him out in 1991 long enough to assimilate the culture and then froze him for another 20 years or so.", 
        "the fuck is that shirt man. ", 
        "It's badass", 
        "Conor got loud shirts too", 
        "Overeem looks like he's wearing a series of blankets under a sports coat.  Never has hugging another man looked so comfortable..", 
        "I'd imagine hugging Sage would be similar to hugging a metal folding chair, but with spikes all up in your face.", 
        "\"I'm only 19...but does this shirt look good on me, sir?\"\n\"It looks terrible, like your haircut\"\n\"I'm only 19...and not sure what that word means. But, you compared it to my hair, so it must mean it looks good! It's so good to be 19 and looking terrible, sir!\"", 
        "\"Thank you for the shirt mister Robin Black\"", 
        "Nice title OP", 
        "Seriously. This is probably the best title for a picture I've ever seen on reddit.  ", 
        "Sage looks more like Gary Busey as time goes on", 
        "Looking like a gay couple more like it.", 
        "Shop out the fist and show this to anyone outside of mma and theyll definitely think that", 
        "I think you can still leave in the fist", 
        "Made me laugh out loud", 
        "You're the man Shane!", 
        "But did it turn you on?", 
        "I was in my bath so yes", 
        "I'd say Sage is going for one of those kooky Chaos Mages from 2nd edition that have the d100 wild magic chart to roll along with their spells as random reactions of their magic.  They have wild surge magic in 5th edition as well, so it would be easy to port into a 5th edition campaign.  And it makes sense that his character, an ex-monk who rejected the stoic life in the monastery, is so curious about chaos and magic.\n\nReem on the other hand is going for a classic: the hardened Necromancer.  The black hood, the distant look of slight amusement tinged with evil.  If you let him cast Lich or Vampire Touch, you're pretty much done for, as his multiclass monk skills have his touch attach gain awesome bonuses.\n\n8/10 would probably want either one in my party.", 
        "That stare of Sage's is disconcerting. Seems like a good guy, but his eyes are creepy.", 
        "Serial killer eyes. Or cultist.", 
        "Got that Dennis Reynolds vibe", 
        "Sage has a bigger jaw than the reem, wtf.", 
        "Not really", 
        "Horse meat is more readily available where Sage comes from.", 
        "Glass wears down over time...", 
        "Aiiii. Burned glass.", 
        "Sage makes them disappear while Reem just looks like he buries them behind the parking lot", 
        "They look like they are about to walk the runway at Mugatu's fashion show or some shit", 
        "Great title, brah.\n\nSage looks like a cruise ship entertainer. Or a figure skater. (Sorry, Sage).", 
        "Figure skater perfectly describes all of the horrendous silk dress shirts Sage wears", 
        "Hey man, those ships spend a lot of time docked. *Somebody's* gotta entertain those ships ", 
        "This guy always manages to get pictures with his haters. Remember Reem called him a pussy lol.", 
        "I already complimented you on this post a few hours ago but I'm back just to say it again. Well done OP, well done.", 
        "hahah thanks man, appreciate it.", 
        "Did overeem Call him a pussy on cowboy's podcast?  Fake prick", 
        "Cowboy has a podcast? Is it any good?", 
        "He hasn't done one since the fight,  but the ones I saw were phenomenal", 
        "yep he did...", 
        "He doesn't look particularly enthused to share a picture with him.", 
        "You've gotta give Sage props though, because you just *know* someone told him about what Overeem said, and it looks like he didn't even think twice about approaching that behemoth HW and asking for a picture. \n\n*\"He said what about me? Oh, yeah? Watch me make him take a picture with me in the most flamboyantly ridiculous outfit I can think of. Fetch me Colbey's blouse\"*", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He could call Sage whatever he wants with absolutely zero repercussion", 
        "Like I said before, I have mad respect for Sage, because he knows that monster called him a pussy, and he has the balls to walk up to him, smile and take a picture with him. \n\n\"Mr. Overeem, did anyone tell you our voices sound alike?\"", 
        "\"Yes sir Mr. Overeem I am a pussy, would you like me to suck your dick?\"", 
        "Sage and El Chapo have the same stylist. ", 
        "Sage looks like every douche from every 90s film ever ", 
        "Is the Reem wearing a hoodie over a pinstripe jacket? That's the first time I've seen that hideous combination. ", 
        "He probably bought it in the Netherlands, it's quite common here.", 
        "Both of their clothing confuses me.", 
        "Browsing All and come across this. Straight thought these were two magicians and went to look for some of their tricks. Came back and saw the sub. Kinda disappointed. No magic here folks. ", 
        "OP, well done", 
        "This post is exactly why i love reddit!", 
        "Is that a pinstripe hoodie?", 
        "Looks like a ventriloquist act. The new Otto and George ", 
        "Sage looks like he's looking in two different directions at the same time.", 
        "Dude.... Sage needs to go back to having his mom dress him", 
        "Siegfried & Roy vs. that masked guy who reveals all the secrets", 
        "That poor kid is going to have so much regret later in life.  No one deserves to have their 19 year old fashion sense put on an international broadcast ", 
        "Sage - Stage Magic\n\nReem - Street Magic\n\n", 
        "lmao, accurate.", 
        "Sage looks like someone photoshopped his mouth on upside down", 
        "or pua's", 
        "they eat the same kind of horse meat though", 
        "Sage has a lazy eye. ", 
        "Ric Flair bot where u at wooooo", 
        "I reckon Sage does a great Uri Gellar", 
        "The two aesthetic fighters and the two most likely to win a body building competition too", 
        "Or the awesomest power top/power bottom couple ever.", 
        "Sage looks like an excited fan. \"WE HAVE VERY FANTASTIC BODIES!\"", 
        "Look at the size of the club on the end of his arm. That thing could cover half of a face. ", 
        "Reem looks like the snapchat effect that makes your face balloon out. ", 
        "Sage Northcutt's got no business looking like the Daedric Prince of Madness.", 
        "It's amazing that they both look like street fighter characters. Seriously, neither of them would look out of place. ", 
        "Overeem = Craig Marduk\n\nSage = Steve Fox", 
        "they look cute together , when did this happen ?", 
        "half the damn audience is texting.", 
        "hahaha, so true.", 
        "Anyone who could link me that weird 'yes sir' compilation of Sage?", 
        "His eyes are so... empty", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y-AxelljgAk\n\nNever forget", 
        "*Behind the candelabra*", 
        "Sage looking like a bottom bitch", 
        "Sage reminds me of Mike Barnes from Karate Kid 3.", 
        "Nice paisley shirt.", 
        "It's nice that their date went well.", 
        "sage looks like the kind that makes dicks disappear into his butt.", 
        "overeem punches his chest and makes it disappear into the crowd.", 
        "Illusions, Michael ", 
        "Twink with his power top.", 
        "Two #allnatty bros", 
        "That lazy eye tho...", 
        "Overeem wishes he could make USADA disappear.", 
        "Sage on that flaming skulls / dragon shit from the late 90s", 
        "Rumor has it that astronauts on board the ISS can see Sage's shirt from space. ", 
        "sage has a lazy eye?", 
        "Sage's smile always seem a bit off.", 
        "Who's the guy on the left?", 
        "Sage looks like he's either going to murder a bunch of kids in his basement or he's already hid the bodies.", 
        "Sage Northcutt looks like a Street Fighter character", 
        "is it just me or are sages eyes crooked", 
        "Looks like he dug up his dad's rayon shirt from the 90s.", 
        "Overeem is phony AF... Just like 2 moths ago he was calling the kid a pussy", 
        "What a creepy ass smile. ", 
        "\"Mom, what should I wear to the UFC fight?\"\n\n(from kitchen) \"What about that shirt I got you for Easter 2 years ago?\"", 
        "What pattern is on that button down", 
        "I guess PEDs must be magic", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This kid is all on the way to drugs", 
        ">Nate I will see you again. \n\nI would love a Nate/Conor rivalry.", 
        "it would be cool if somehow Conor beats him at 155 then they have a third fight, would probably make for the biggest 3 fights in history\n\nbut I don't see Conor beating Nate", 
        "I can. He just needs to get him right in that first round, or not come out over aggressive. Conor was out boxing him. \n\nIt is a fucking tough fight and Diaz is the more well rounded fighter, but it's the UFC, anything can happen.", 
        "You could see he was starting to get a little bit more desperate after every shot. Boom, lands the big \"Mendes\" cross. Diaz doesn't even flich, keeps throwing not just after it, but through it. Boom, another. Nothing. Uppercuts not doing shit, hits him with the same shot he hit Buchinger with all those years ago. Nate's head spins, and comes right back as if Conor tickled him. They looked like wrecking balls, but the shots did nothing. It was really entertaining.", 
        "Yeah it was super exciting. bit of a rollercoaster too. I was pretty apprehensive (thought Diaz was a super dangerous match up for him), then I was feeling pretty good in the middle of the first when Conor was landing shot after shot. Then I slowly realised that Diaz wasn't going to get KO'd. Then he turned the momentum so quickly when he landed that left.\n\nIt was great fun, really intense experience.", 
        "Lol ok, I never said anything couldn't happen, I'm just seeing I can't picture Conor beating Nate after that fight.  He hit him with his best shots and got worn out, if he comes out fighting Nate more efficiently next time he will just get dragged into deeper waters.  It's going to be near impossible to catch up to Nate and beat him in his own game, and clearly McGregor couldn't win with the style he has right now.  Nate is too tough to KO for him, and volume fighting is where Nate is best.  McGregor won't be able to become an elite wrestler or pass him in grappling/jiu jitsu either.  But if you can picture a way Conor beats him let me know because he didn't outbox Nate.  Nate's game is to slip and if he fails get hit and survive, throw volume and wear you out.  Sure McGregor landed a lot and did more damage, won round 1, but all these people saying he outboxed Nate are so off - Nate outboxed Conor and won because of it.  Taking damage is something Diaz has always done", 
        "Conor was clearly the better boxer in terms of actual boxing skill. He was just smaller and weaker with a shorter reach. He couldn't do damage and Diaz could.\n\nThat cut on Diaz's eye was well on its way to causing the fight to stop though. So that right there is one way Conor could have won this fight... It was a great fight, Conor just couldnt get Diaz, then got clipped, just about knocked the fuck out, and then like he always does Nate jumped on the opportunity when it presented itself.", 
        "Nate out boxed him homie. Wore him out, hurt him, and made him wrestle", 
        "He clearly didn't though. Conor landed more strikes and got hit less. Until he was clipped in the second. That can happen to the better boxer against a very good one, especially with the reach advantage Diaz had. Conor is a better boxer than Diaz.\n\nThe fact he fatigued very quickly has nothing to do with his actual boxing skill. Which is what I was talking about.", 
        "I'll still disagree with you but its cool.  I understand what you are trying to say but I just disagree", 
        "That's fair enough, I get where you are coming from as well, we both are just looking at it from a different perspective.", 
        "Yeah, I consider volume punching and endurance boxing a particular style and thus Nate outboxed McGregor with that even if the early exchanges went to McGregor and his style, in the end Nate's boxing won him the fight", 
        "This. It makes all the business sense in the world for this to happen. The biggest trilogy in UFC history. Apparently 196 was the biggest fight ever i heard.", 
        "Let him fight the stoned Diaz!", 
        "He used the incorrect form of your. you+are=you're,  not your. ", 
        "I would... if they fought at a catch-weight.", 
        "Two giant unlikable asshole singularities?  Two wrongs make a right sometimes I guess", 
        "He's going to Nate's jiujitsu class", 
        "On the other hand, I'd like to see Nate drop down to 145 and beat Conor, again.\n", 
        "There is no way in hell Nate can make that weightcut. And if he did he would be so sick. A fight between those too at 145 would be a whole other kettle of fish.", 
        "You're in luck.", 
        "nate vs conor rematch would probably be the greatest $$$ UFC fight in history. better than holm and rousey...which is not easy to beat.", 
        "Rivalry? Is the time not ripe for MMA tag teams?", 
        "They both have so much heart. And mouth.", 
        "Imagine if it went to the point where they had a fistfight and...oh wait.", 
        "Connor or Nate will win the 155lb title and he will certainly meet Nate again. This will become the best MMA rivalry in history", 
        "Conor's gonna kill that fooker next time.", 
        "Gonna get beat up again, dude needs to go back to his own weight class,welterweight is for the big boys", 
        "This is going to be bad ass. And I'm so happy that Nate is going to have big money.", 
        "So will Nate's bank account, so it is a very good possibility!", 
        "I think we will see the rematch, if Conor can make FW again he's got a good chance at clearing the division out in 1-2 fights (Edgar, Aldo rematch.) Nate is amazing but the blueprint to beating him has been written so he'll continue to float just outside the top 5, if Conor strings a few more wins together a rematch against Nate at LW would make a lot of sense. ", 
        " I like how you think there are blueprints for beating fighters... Nothing is that simple in MMA. Anyone can lose in any given fight.", 
        "I was hoping Conor would never need to go back to 145 seeing as he looks like a skeleton, but it seems he's given no choice if he wants to keep the belt. ", 
        "I would like to see Conor vs Diaz at 155", 
        "I mean, thats kind of what we just saw. Even if they cut down for the weigh in, after re-hydrating they both would have been close to 170, no?", 
        "a plumber from [Crumlin](http://photos-a.propertyimages.ie/media/0/5/1/2413150/184%20Crumlin%20Rd%20003_m.jpg) and Vegan from [Stockton](http://i.cubeupload.com/elcsNp.png) I think their next fight will look a bit like [this](http://imgur.com/gallery/2WWbesi)", 
        "is vegan a profession?", 
        "you've never met a vegan have you? ", 
        "It's right up there with New Yorkers and atheists when it comes to letting everyone know if you're an atheist, vegan or New Yorker.", 
        "And cross fitters.", 
        "This is true.\n\nI crossfit.", 
        "haha great post", 
        "...Nate is a vegan? Holly shit, that is amazing & inspiring.", 
        "makes the whole \"now see me on steak\" thing extra funny losing to a vegan :)", 
        "There's several vegan fighters in the UFC actually. But yeah he's been vegan for about 12 years.", 
        "And dudes like this:  \nhttp://www.onegreenplanet.org/news/vegan-strongman-patrik-babaoumain-breaks-world-record/  \n", 
        "Yup that guy is definitely a \"vegan badass\".", 
        "You picked a bad picture of crumlin... a few months ago I'd have said Stockton is a hundred times worse, although now people are getting shot in the face a lot so maybe not. And stockton actually isn't that bad according to a lot of people who know it apparently. Weird how things change.", 
        "Been in Stockton for three years and haven't had any issues with anyone.  Same as any city, it has bad parts and you are good as long as you know where you are.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Only 20,000 people live in Crumlin as opposed to 700,000 in Stockton. And there are a lot of criminals living there but maybe not operating in the area. ", 
        "That's a pretty nice part of Stockton. Only one of those houses has barred windows, and nary a methhead or stray dog to be seen!", 
        "inb4 Conor moves to Stockton and starts training with the Diaz brothers.", 
        "I live in Dublin, CA\n\n...it's about an hour away from Stockton haha", 
        "Some Rocky shit right there. Get him ready to deal with Frankie's wrestling. ", 
        "he does like california....", 
        "Stockton ain't Hermosa Beach buddy", 
        "No, it is not.", 
        "Can confirm, I used to commute from Sacramento to work in south Stockton. I managed a shipping company and somebody would try to break in at least twice a week.", 
        "where you gone bruh I thought your comment was cool", 
        "The reverse Jon Jones", 
        "Those two as coaches now would be the highest rated TUF ever.", 
        "Nate is too retarded and lazy to be a TUF coach ", 
        "Nate has been an excellent BJJ instructor for longer than Conor has been in the UFC.", 
        "> Nate is too retarded and lazy to be a TUF coach \n\nAre you fucking kidding me?", 
        "Lazy when it comes to press commitments and other shit he see's as pointless to him. ", 
        "No way Nate would ever do TUF unfortunately. He hates media shit enough as it is. Also I dont think any TUF would ever have more physical altercations than that one. I dont think they would even be able to actually do it because they would fight literally every time they are in the same room.", 
        "Money talks - Nate Diaz", 
        "They'd lose money on it from paying the overtime on the guy who censors swearing.", 
        "Don't let Dana and FS1 hear that. They'll do it.", 
        "Good. I'd be all in for that. ", 
        "Conors loss was the sacrifice made to the MMA gods so that TUF may rise ", 
        "Yes, dude yes.... I just got the greatest feeling thinking about how great that season would be... ", 
        "and season 5 was the best in which Nate killed it.", 
        "That season also had Lauzon, it is the only one people new to MMA should watch when they get Fight Pass.", 
        "He's also a redditor!", 
        "The Sonnen/Jones season was solid too.", 
        "That season had Gray Maynard too.", 
        "Hadn't Lauzon fought in the UFC before TUF? I wasn't watching MMA back then. How was that possible? According to Wikipedia he beat Jens Pulver the year before. Pulver was a TUF 5 coach. So one of the contestants had already knocked out the opposing coach? In the UFC?", 
        "> So one of the contestants had already knocked out the opposing coach?\n\nBINGO!", 
        "What about Andy Wang? Whenever I see that guy I just thinks he's a real warrior.", 
        "S10 was dope AF", 
        "Was that the one where they kept hyping Kimbo and making it seem like he would be coming back the following week at the end of each episode?", 
        "That's the one. Been hooked ever since", 
        "whispering: *\"put me back in... i can make the weight..\"*\n\nGod that was good tv. Ruediger was a clown", 
        "Wow flashbacks. I remember someone making a cake reference on this sub a couple days ago and couldn't remember what it referenced. But seeing that name Gabe Ruediger and it all came rushing back.", 
        "[Yep, still funny](http://mobigs.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/GABE-vs-WHALE_CAKE.gif)", 
        "S1 was pretty crazy", 
        "back when no one gave a fuck and were just swinging", 
        "Except Koscheck, I just remember him not even trying to punch guys even when he took them down. He literally just laid on guys. ", 
        "It great season but nothing beats season one: KenFlo,  Sanchez, Griffin, Bonnar, Koscheck,  Leben... Couches Lidell and Couture... No other season produced so many names", 
        "what about \"let me bang bro\"?  I remember that was a good season.", 
        "I think that says more about the shallow depth of the talent pool of the UFC at the time than it does about the quality of the coaching/roster.\n\nI mean, that was at a time when you couldn't make a sincere top 5 in any weight class, because there just weren't 5 good fighters at any of them.", 
        "That's exactly what it was.  The whole point of TUF 1 was to add several names to the UFC that fans felt they could relate to/knew something about.  Spend several weeks introducing the fans to these guys through a TV show then introduce the best into the game.  ", 
        "Season one kinda sucked for other reasons though. Things like challenges, and people skating though on few-to-no fights. The producers hadn't found the TUF groove yet.", 
        "Couture couch of the year.", 
        "If Nate fought and beat Dos Anjos, and then defended his title against Conor, holy shit. Biggest fight ever. ", 
        "Why would Connor get that shot?", 
        "That's a pretty big if considering how one sided the first fight was.", 
        "UFC 200:\nNate vs RDA\nConor vs Edgar\nRonda vs Miesha 3", 
        "Bigger= Nate gets belt. Nick fights back and gets welter belt.\n\nDIAZ V DIAZ catch weight!", 
        "Dos Anjos whooped that ass the first time.  I think Anjos pulls out the dos win. ", 
        "What if Nate gets a crack at Robbie at 200, wins, then gets Dos Anjos later in the year and becomes the 1st simultaneous fighter to hold two belts? Now THAT'D be something!", 
        "Conor would need to win a fight at 155 to get that though.  He wouldn't be able to go from beating Frankie/Aldo to getting an immediate title shot at 155.", 
        "But that is exactly what was about to happen. Mcgreggor beat Aldo, then was immediately set up to fight for the 155 belt...", 
        "Yes, that's when he was undefeated in the UFC.  He just got destroyed by Nate Diaz, so the whole situation today is much different than it was a week ago.", 
        "Nates brother gets title shots off loses though, so are you suggesting he needs to lose a fight at 155lbs before deserving a shot?", 
        "Why not? He's been given the shot already. He's Conor and as it seems he gets what he wants.", 
        "Except he just lost to Nate Diaz, so the dynamic changes completely.", 
        "Yea but with a successful defense at FW I could see the possibility of an immediate shot at LW if Nate was the title holder just because of the numbers it would do. But I also see that the loss changed a lot of things.", 
        "Source?  Is there a rulebook you are referencing or are you just talking out of your ass?  Don't respond I know the answer.  Dana can and will do whatever is best for business.  Maybe all these other guys should stop being boring in and out of the ring and then they would get some money too.  ", 
        "See you have the perfect idiotic approach to MMA.  Zero logic behind your stupid ideas.  Dana can get away with giving McGregor any fight he wants because McGregor was undefeated in the UFC.  That is no longer the case.", 
        "You're right.  It illogical to say that Dana will do what is best for business.  He actually doesn't care about making money.  If Conor defends against Frankie or Aldo, and the numbers look good, then Conor will get an immediate shot at 155.  I'm sure Dana is worried about some dude named FunkSlice over on /r/mma", 
        "He was already getting a lightweight title shot after just gaining the featherweight belt.   The Diaz fight was at 170, so they can use that as a fig leaf to claim it doesn't really change anything  regarding the lightweight picture.  (Though Diaz is really a 155lb fighter anyway,  they just didn't cut weight.)\n\nThe UFC will make any fight that will sell.  They're giving CM Punk a fight without having ever fought in mma at all.  He does have a big name though and will draw in huge numbers of wwe fans. \n\nMy guess is that Connor will have to defend his featherweight belt once.   If he does that, they probably will want to go ahead with a superfight for the lightweight title.  The more he fights at featherweight, the more likely he'll lose and kill the justification for moving up in weight and the ufc will miss out on a big ppv opportunity.  Connor is a good fighter, but he is not magical.   He can be beaten by Edgar, Aldo, and likely others at his own weight. ", 
        "Doubt it. Maybe if Diaz beat him at 155, but since it was 170. Then no.\n\nAnd people act like Diaz didn't cut weight for that fight, but he cut about 10 lbs I think. He walks around heavier than McGregor.", 
        "Why not? He went from beating Mendez/Aldo to an immediate title shot at 155.", 
        "Why not?  Because he just lost to Nate Diaz who's a lightweight.  LMAO.  Please don't continue this, \"Conor should get whatever Conor wants\" mentally that infested this once great subreddit.", 
        "He just lost at 170, not 155. I'm far from a McGregor fan, but I don't know why the biggest star in UFC wouldn't get a title shot at 155 after dominating 145 to a point where there's no competition. If he starches Aldo and/or Edgar, he absolutely should get a shot at the 155 belt even though fighting RDA would be a bad fight for him.\n\nI don't think he'll vacate the 145 belt without another fight, Only thing is I'm not sure he has more than 1 fight at 145 left in him. Does he give that shot to Edgar, or does Aldo get the rematch?", 
        "Dana and Conor were ducking Frankie hard. Now they have to come home and take the fight. Also the fight was at 170 because neither cut weight. They are both LWs. Conor just happens to cut an extra 10lbs to get down to 145. ", 
        "Nate fighting at LW, is pretty much like Conor fighting at FW.  Conor fought for the LW title in Cage Warriors, but nearly all of his fights have been at FW.  Nate's got a couple fights at WW, but nearly all of his fights have been at LW.  How was Conor ducking Frankie hard, by first going up to fight the LW champ at 55 AND THEN offering the fight to Frankie at 55?  Only to fight Nate Diaz at 170.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">I do like his odds better against RDA than I did against Nate.\n\nwow Really? I think RDA is a nightmare matchup for Connor, where I think Connor beats Diaz 7/10 times.\n\nWhat do you think makes RDA an easier matchup for Conor than Diaz?", 
        "\"after dominating 145 to a point where there's no competition.\" \n\nUhhh...have you not heard of Frankie Edgar?  McGregor hasn't cleaned out the division yet.", 
        "> He wouldn't be able to go from beating Frankie/Aldo to getting an immediate title shot at 155.\n\nUhhh.... have you not been paying attention to what you said? I'm only saying if he defends his 145 against Edgar, and wins convincingly then vacates the 145 belt why should the biggest star in the UFC not get a title shot at 155? This whole discussion was based off your preface that he beats Edgar...... are you arguing with me or with yourself?", 
        "Your not wrong about the mentality I don't like it either, however it's based of the fact that Conor at this moment has gotten what he wants. He pretty much called his shots in the UFC and they obliged. For the UFC money counts and as long as Conor is drawing big they will do what he wants.", 
        "Yes, but this is a big bump in the road.  The reason why they could match him up with anyone is because of his undefeated record in the UFC.  They could justify any fight for him because he's the champ and undefeated.  He's still a champ, but that undefeated record in the UFC is gone making it difficult for him to fight the Robbie Lawlers of the world.  He could still fight for a LW title in the future but I can see the UFC giving him a \"warm up\" fight at 155 before doing so.  ", 
        "Agreed, I see conor maybe getting another straight shot at rda if he's still champ just because the beef and the money put into the first one. But that would likely be after a few fights at FW.", 
        "Let's be real, if the money makes sense Dana will give him a shot.\n\nWhether that should be the case is debatable, but if Diaz gets the belt he could fight Conor as a first defence. The PPV would be huge.", 
        ">if the money makes sense Dana will give him a shot.\n\nThis is why it is more about the entertainment(hence: money) aspect than sport.", 
        "Yeah. But for me it is about entertainment also to some extent, especially if I am dropping $10 (split PPV 5 ways with mates) to watch.\n\nConor is one of the best fighters in the UFC. And every fight he has been in has been entertaining as hell. There is a reason people keep tuning in.\n\nOverall I like that the UFC gives us the fights we want, it is better than watching boxers dodge each other for half a decade.", 
        ">Yeah. But for me it is about entertainment also to some extent, especially if I am dropping $10 (split PPV 5 ways with mates) to watch.\n\nFor me Sports will breed entertainment naturally,. The first thing that hooked me to UFC was the LHW division Anthony Johnson vs Gustafson, and you see the sport aspect there and the rest of Johnson's career from that point, McGregor vs Nate Diaz makes no sense, it's 100% entertainment right there, I enjoyed it. I'm just saying.\n\nFrankie vs McGregor makes MORE sense\n\nAldo vs McGregor II\n\nEddie ALvarez/Pettis vs McGregor in LW\n\n", 
        "That is my train of thought, you can have fights that are both sport and entertainment. I believe for the growth and mainstream development of the sport you'd need to lean more towards sport so you aren't so reliant on superstars. ", 
        "McGregor Diaz makes no sense as either fighters next fight.\n\nBut 6-12 months down the line if McGregor defends the FW belt atleast once (against Edgar) maybe twice (Aldo or Hollaway or someone) he can start thinking of a fight at LW again. Then a Diaz fight makes sense again, it would do by far the biggest numbers.\n\nWhat is crucial for Conor atm is that he wins his next fight. He will recover fine from this loss, in terms of his reputation as a draw, but back to back losses could cost him big time.", 
        ">He will recover fine from this loss\n\nWhich implies he has to defend successfully. Since the hype train has been derailed, he is going back home from 170 to 145. He has to in order to bring the hype back again,  but his chances of the 170 belts went down WAAAY down and the 155 belt seems impossible at this moment since Nate is actually not that close to the lightweight belt or to the Welterweight belt.", 
        "Yep, absolutely agree with you. If he can't make that 145 cut the hype will be all but dead for the time being, he will have to try work his way up the LW rankings.", 
        "Diaz would have a really fucking huge wall to climb in dos anjos. I dunno, maybe he can pull it off, but as it is I don't see RDA losing.", 
        "I agree personally. But it's the UFC. Better fighters lose to other elite ones all the time.", 
        "I will buy every Conor PPV by default, simply because he guarantees amazing co-main events when he is in the main:\nHolm-Tate\nWeidman-Rockhold\nLawler-Rory\n", 
        "All of his main events have been pretty spectacular too. Even though Aldo was disappointing it was still a great event, especially after Luke Rockhold messed up Weidman.", 
        "So would my erection", 
        "Same here. It was a super exciting fight. Conor looked unbeatable, then he looked gassed, then he got clipped, then he took a desperate gamble trying to get the fight to the ground and got choked out.\n\nIt only lasted just under 2 rounds, but it was an awesome fight.\n\nI definitely think we will see those two guys fight again. But Conor has a lot of work to do if he wants to reverse the result.", 
        "RDA would brutalize Diaz again. ", 
        "Good. So we can put to bed this notion that Nate it a top fighter. ", 
        "He is. Not because he can't beat the current champ means he is not an elite fighter.", 
        "Diaz's boxing has improved since that fight. You never know...", 
        "I don't think boxing was ever the problem.  Nate is too flatfooted for RDA, can't stop his TD, and RDA's submission defense is too good for Nate to submit him.", 
        "Yeah that fight is stupid, and it's not fair to Tony Ferguson and to a much lesser extent Khabib. Ferguson deserve the next shot.", 
        "Agree, I don't see Diaz beating RDA. I know he wasn't in shape when they fought, but RDA is a monster that will repeat his performance.", 
        "You CANT count Diaz out man - look what he did just last night. And you gotta think there have been improvements in his game.", 
        "What he did last night was not all that impressive if you listen to Nate's interviews before the fight. If you look at Connors losses they are all by sub and Nate has BJJ for days", 
        "> If you look at Connors losses they are all by sub and Nate has BJJ for days\n\nThat's a bit disingenuous.  Even though Nate technically won by submission, the win was because of his boxing and his chin.  Conor tired the fuck out by going for knockouts.  Then got tagged on the chin and wobbled.  He basically just called it quits right then when he went for the double leg.", 
        "Nate and Nick have crazy BJJ, no one can take that away or deny", 
        "Having not heard the interview, what did Nate say that made it less impressive?", 
        "Nate basically said Connor didn't bring boxing skills that he never saw before and that his BJJ was sub par. I watched Connors losses and Mendez showed that a good grapler like Diaz would expose the holes in Connors game that he has yet to address. So I'm happy that Nate won, I also expected it", 
        "I mean, as a fairly causal fan, I thought it was a great fight by both. Nate definitely got tagged with a few shots that may have dropped other guys (gotta love that Diaz toughness), Connor ended the first in pretty dominant position, and Nate's finish showed really a solid ground game (like you, not surprised by that, but it's still worth noting). I think for jumping up two weight classes in ~3 months, Connor did well last night. Maybe Connor's boxing wasn't legendary, but he did pretty well against a guy who many say has some of the best boxing in MMA (my untrained eye gave the first round to Connor). I mean, until he started getting slapped around haha", 
        "Nate often takes shots, Nick does too, I think they like laughing during the fight at their opponents. They have scar tissue that opens up real quick maiking thier opponents shots look better than normal. Look at Nate versus Marcus Davis (former boxer) for a good example of his boxing skills. I saw the first round as Connor missing more than I saw him do in the past. Only a 5 punch landed difference for Connor in the first and Nate said he was conserving energy since he had no fight camp.", 
        "I'm a big Diaz fan, but I wouldn't bet on him beating Dos Anjos.  He could beat him, but it's a rough matchup.  I'd say Dos Anjos would win it 3 times out of 4. I think he can do much better than he looked last time though.  He was battling injuries and really not in condition to face a fighter of Dos Anjos caliber.  His friends begged him to cancel, but he needed the paycheck and decided to go for it and just give it all he could.  He still made it to a decision, ugly and lopsided as it was.  ", 
        "Dos Anjos is a freak.  I won't be surprised if we see him pop on a drug test.  I know he gets a lot of accusations of it already.  I'd love to see Dos Anjos vs McGregor, but I really want to see Frankie vs McGregor even more.  I wouldn't mind see Diaz vs Dos Anjos 2 in the meantime.", 
        "Huge longtime Diaz bros fan, but totally agree about RDA winning again, dude is a crazy good\n\n* not like Nate isn't, there's just such a large gap in strength. RDA can keep the pace with Diaz, but hit and grapple that much stronger ", 
        "I think a big key to RDA winning that fight was his leg kicks, is there any chance that RDA is hesitant to throw that kick after breaking his foot? ", 
        "No, his foot break was definitely a minor one.  He'll be fine.", 
        "Conspiracy it's not broken", 
        "It wasn't a horrible injury, plus he has another leg to throw kicks with.", 
        "Isn't that like saying as a right hander, if you break your right hand, you can always just switch to southpaw?  I don't know, I'm not a kicker of boxes, but it seems like it would matter.", 
        "Its not like hes trying to throw kicks with his feet, he probably caught an elbow or something.  ", 
        "People have broken their hands mid fight, and have done exactly that.", 
        "Sure, but they're not as effective with their off hand.  I was mainly interested in learning if it actually mattered what leg you kicked with, which a couple of people answered for me.", 
        "I can of course only speak for myself but at my first gym everyone had to train fighting regular as well as southpaw. Because of that even though I favor one side I am quite able to compensate if need be. But when I went to a different gym I found out most people aren't forced to work both so I imagine for most fighters it would be a big thing, But I have to imagine at that level they trained the little things like that.", 
        "Yeah at this level I imagine most guys can switch stance and remain pretty effective.", 
        "Depends what flavor of kickboxing you partake in. Pettis and other TKD guys train ambidexterity but it'd be rare to find a person with no favoured side. I'm not saying I wanna take kicks from a trained kickers \"off leg\" but when it comes to decisions under duress, people will have a tendency to that 'preferred' side.\n\nThat being said, Zadex has the point. RDA, so long as he heals fine, will just keep throwing what he knows.", 
        "It does matter, but I don't think the injury will be that big of a mental hurdle. ", 
        "Ok.  I didn't know if kickers had a favored foot or not.  Like being left or right handed.", 
        "Yeah it won't be. As someone who's had the same injury, it's not broken like Anderson Silva style, so the mental factor is much smaller. Silva snapped his in half during a fight, that is a huge mental barrier. Anybody who has done any kind of sparring, kickboxing, Muay Thai, basically anything with kicks can tell you how much it sucks when someone uses their elbow to block and your foot ends up hitting their elbow instead. ", 
        "It doesn't matter that much...it's not like he broke his shin like Silva did...", 
        "yeah i think that would be the generate the highest interest. but as it stands , he has to go back , face Frankie to really prove himself and get the hype back partially , he can face aldo but again , he ll be called a pussy for ducking frankie . It all comes down to Mcgs next move and i am really interested what happens next", 
        "He'll be called a pussy for fighting at 145.", 
        "Is your keyboard broken?", 
        "Are you mentally challenged that you can't write 6 line paragraph? And think that writing that much means I have to break my key board ? I understand you wanna shit on us mcg fans . Good for you man that you are finally able to take all that frustration out ", 
        "R", 
        "Will he be able to go back, everybody said, even himself, that the weight cut was brutal, how hard will it be now, has he painted himself into a corner?", 
        "i think hes fine going back. Granted it is hard, but that is the way to go now", 
        "Lol he won't be called a pussy he was about to fight fucking rda ffs", 
        "thats the truth and i agree, but regardless , that is what people will  make it out to be ", 
        "I think there's a chance Aldo hangs it up.  No evidence, just my gut feeling from the last fight.  ", 
        ">face Frankie to really prove himself\n\n\nOh Jesus.", 
        "i guess i put it in a way which seems to say that mcg hasnt proven himself, i guess what i am trying to say his, beating frankie will give him most of the hype back ", 
        "Ah, yeah I hope that's what's next, I honestly think he should have defended once before moving up at all.", 
        "True fight fans will see this for what it was, a mistake. A mistake for accepting the weight that Nate set, a mistake for not covering 145 totally. If he wanted anjos at 155, he should have moved the fight. But he took this one and he lost. I won't be judging him on it and neither should the fans of mma. As for his attitude, love it or hate it, it gains interest in the sport and that is what we all want.\n\nPeople putting this in the same box as the rousey fight don't care about mma, just talking nonsense. Rousey was cocky, wasn't readying herself and got took out in her comfort zone. ", 
        "I don't think you can call a 1 million dollar pay day plus PPV cut a mistake. He took the fight for the payday. ", 
        "I thought conor s team set the weight", 
        "No, Connors team met Nates demands", 
        "Ok, I heard nate agreed to 155", 
        "McGregor was at 155 ready to fight Dos Anjos, why would he want to take nate up weight ?", 
        "They way it sounds from interviews, Nate initially accepted 155, then Conor took a day or two to accept Nate's offer, and when they got back to him he decided he didn't want to cut to 155 and offered a middle ground at 165 and Conor's camp just agreed to do it at 170. ", 
        "Interesting,  I wonder if he would do it the same if given the chance", 
        "People comparing this to Rousey go beyond simply \"not caring\"; they're altogether ignorant about MMA.\n\n\n", 
        "I don't think it was a mistake. Losing is ok. Better to lose this and learn why than hold out for RDA and make that mistake versus him. He conceded in the press conference than he expected to knock Nate out with just a few clean punches. He hsd bought into his own hype. He fought recklessly. He hurt Diaz, was winning the fight, and tried to Anderson Silva him. THAT was a mistake. Taking this fight was not a mistake. He fought even though his opponent pulled out. He put on a great show against a bigger guy and didn't try to weaken him and exploit his own star power. In the long run this will gain him a lot of respect, especially if he wins a rematch. Meanwhile he got humbled and will take opponents more seriously - a lesson he had to learn on the evidence offl Sat night.", 
        "I agree with everything you said. I hope he does learn from it, he is saying the right things and already seems to be analysing where it went wrong for him. Could be his Serra moment. ", 
        "Go full WWE. Edgar v Aldo for the #1 Contendership.", 
        "Let's go fuller WWE and have some two on two matches. ", 
        "Any quick reason why this shouldn't happen?", 
        "in a ladder match", 
        "A chutes and ladders match", 
        "Chutes and ladders on a pole match", 
        "I honestly hope he fights and beats both Edgar and Aldo, and maybe by that time Nate will of fought RDA. If he was to win that would set up Conor v Nate for the 155 belt pretty nicely. ", 
        "Well Frankie and the winner of Aldo Holloway would be ideal. If he does that he has legitimately cleaned out the division. Then he can either, dominate it like MM/JJ is doing or decide to move up. ", 
        "He will not beat Edgar+Aldo, lets take it easy now", 
        "Read my name.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "155 is a division of killers. Connor got beat by the #5... I can't remember which fighter said it but cardio goes out the door when you get punched in the face by the Diaz brothers", 
        "> Nate will ~~of~~ fought RDA\n\nwill **have** fought RDA", 
        "Am i the only one that doesnt want to see an aldo rematch??   We had close to a 2 yr build up for that fight and the guy got flattened in 13 secs.  Edgar is the fight to make.  Aldo should have to beat someone and work his way to a title shot", 
        "This aldo has a history of pullouts, frankie all the way then full time at 155", 
        "I want to see it, Aldo who fights smart brings Connor to the ground and subs him fast enough", 
        "I don't want to see ANY rematches. Not within a 24-month frame. They all fight 3 times a year at most, and there's a huge number of compelling matchups for every fighter.", 
        "I want to see Conor vs:\n\n-Aldo 2\n\n-Edgar\n\n-Lightweight fighter\n\n-Dos Anjos\n\n-Diaz 2", 
        "He will get submitted by Frankie within 30 seconds.", 
        "Will have fought*", 
        "sometime in 2018...\n\nJoe: After a devastating loss to Nate Diaz, Conor McGregor defended his original featherweight belt against Frankie Edgar. For the first time in his UFC career, Conor McGregor wins by split decision, in what many are calling, fight of century.\n\nMeanwhile, Nate Diaz, after taking down the golden goose, finally gets his chance at the title. 10 years with the UFC, and let me tell you this is a diaz that can really win the belt. The fight against conor showed a diaz who came in serious, healthy, and ready to rumble. And it showed, with a first round submission victory over reigning champion Rafael Dos Anjos, Nate Diaz claimed the 155 belt, and became, the UFC lightweight champion.\n\nThen McGregor did what he does best, and pissed people off. Calling out Diaz, looking for another title shot. And again, like the fight in 2016, Diaz turns the tables and tells him, \"No.\" He says, \"why don't you defend your little baby belt, and you can fight me once you earn it.\"\n\nLet me tell you, say what you want about Conor, but he went after it. A rematch against Jose Aldo Jr. ends in another first round knock out for McGregor. \n\n(Clip after fight: McGregor yelling into mic \"Why you scared Diaz?!\")\n\nDiaz shows again he's at his peak by beating Anthony Pettis in a one sided unanimous decision. \n\n(Nate: Bitch beat one grown up and maybe we'll talk)\n\nSo what does Conor do? He goes to Dana White. And DANA WHITE SAYS NO.\n\n(Dana: in 2016, we admittedly got ahead of ourselves. I think I was at fault there. I believed in Conor, because he talked a big game, but now he has to prove it. If he wants to challenge for the lightweight belt, he has to get through... Rafael Dos Anjos.)\n\nUFC 205, Conor McGregor, after arguably losing two 10-8 rounds to RDA, submits him with a minute left in round 3 with a rear-naked choke. \n\nIn that fight, it showed a Conor who has learned to fight from behind, learned how to win without that ko left, and most importantly, showed a massive improvement in his grappling game. He made it his mission to show Nate Diaz that things are different now.\n\nNow. UFC 209, in MGM GRAND this Christmas. The featherweight champ. The lightweight champ. The two baddest strikers in the UFC face off once more in the Octagon! Conor McGregor, having doubled his octagon time since the first fight, faces off against lightweight champion Nate Diaz, for the Lightweight Belt!!!!\n\nUFC PROMO? ", 
        "Upvote for the effort with that... Kudos even if it's insane ", 
        "Damn, RDA gets submitted twice.", 
        "yeah pretty much , i think he can gain his hype back if he beats aldo and edgar. He can again  make the pitch for 155 and see how that goes because i don think we have heard the last of mcg moving up. ", 
        "That is what I am thinking, yea I was for Diaz and I loved the fight but I'll be damned if Conor isn't part of what made it so much fun. I'll still tune in to watch his fights and see how he develops. ", 
        "I think Nate should get an immediate shot at RDA. Great victory over the guy who was supposed to fight him.", 
        "Eh, I think it just shows that Conor didn't deserve a shot against RDA. I love Nate, he's one of my favorite fighters, but he isn't going to win the 155 belt. There are just 3 or 4 guys who are plain better than him. ", 
        "didn't nate lose to RDA already recently", 
        "And RDA would just leg kick him to death like he did the first time and win a dominant decision. ", 
        "Maybe, but by the time RDA gets healthy I think the Ferguson/Khabib fight will have happened and some big interest could be built on those guys. ", 
        "I don't think beating a 145 pounder should give Nate a title shot. I don't think mcGregor deserved that fight to begin with though. ", 
        "I really don't think Nate cares about titles. You heard it in his interviews afterwards he said he wants the best fight money wise. ", 
        "Yup, and good for him. Being champ doesn't even look like it would be that fun tbh\n\nI'd love to see a Nick Diaz / Robbie Lawler rematch at 200 if Nick's suspension is up in time. \n\nWith McG getting smoked by a relatively small WW and wonderboy tied up with Rory, it could possibly happen if the timing works\n\nA Condit/Lawler rematch at 200 would also be good", 
        "Nick can't fight until August", 
        "Nate should fight Eddie Alvarez since he got beat by RDA by a huge margin last time", 
        ">  he got beat by RDA by a huge margin last time\n\nI feel like most people are ignoring this. RDA dominated Nate. I don't think RDA gets the praise he deserves because he doesn't hype his fights.", 
        "I would like to see Nate fight literally anybody other than Eddie Alvarez if I am honest. Alvarez is a tool. lol ", 
        "Yeah no thanks, Alvarez ud by wrestle fuck and cage hug ", 
        "Alvarez is a killer, he just fought smart against Melendez and Pettis because these guys could ko him ", 
        "Yeah, but if you want to be seen as a killer, you have to fight like a killer, and Alvarez didn't show anything truly worthy of the title, especially after that Pettis fight. I'm not dogging wrestlers, but if you want to wrestle you have to work for it and do some damage. I'm talking slams, throws, suplexes, get some ground and pound going, try some submissions, something but just holding the guy up against the cage every time he starts to win the exchanges on the feet? To get a shot at the title, you need to really show dominance over the other contenders in the division and pinning someone up to the cage isn't dominating to me, it's just stalemating. ", 
        "Hell yeah, couldn't agree more.\n\nFuck the lay-and-pray or stalling in the clinch.  ", 
        "That's why Diaz is a good fight. He's very dangerous on the mat and on the feet. The Cerone Alvarez fight was good. Nate is similar to Cerone in many apsects (even if he won agaist him)", 
        "I would sell 2 goats to see this", 
        "Shit, take my first born.....daughter ", 
        "I have an attachment to these goats I would like to keep them please. ", 
        "I would raise said goats to see this", 
        "There exist people that would fuck two goats to see this.", 
        "I'd give 7 fucks.", 
        "I would fuck 2 goats to see this. Aww, who am I kidding, I'd fuck 2 goats anyway. ", 
        "Theres only one Cathal lad", 
        "GSP and Fedor?", 
        "Silva and GSP?", 
        "If one of them is Anderson, it's sadly not worth much anymore =(", 
        "let's not get crazy here.", 
        "I'll throw in all my potatoes on top of this offer. ", 
        "Woah woah how are you supposed to feed your family this winter if u throw it all now?", 
        "I have a stick and hoop that I'll part ways with. ", 
        "This is getting lucrative ", 
        "I'll take those potatoes", 
        "Hey, no skimming off the top", 
        "Is the famine back already?", 
        "It never left Connaught dude", 
        "We're well on our way to a nice stew here.\n\nWho's got herbs?", 
        "https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcQFaZH6CMirkSQR4q2Ut5zx56Hod2m5Dg4VmDlxvHUvHMnwL2SdtA", 
        "i do have a lot of curry powder so....", 
        "Take my carrots.", 
        "Go get that referee.", 
        "Boil 'em, mash 'em, put 'em in a stew. We likes taters, precious....", 
        "Stop I just ate dinner", 
        "Don't let the Brits know though. ", 
        "Flair checks out", 
        ":(\n\nSuch is life", 
        "the real winner in this is getty images", 
        "Surely he has access to hundreds of images of himself without doing a Google search. ", 
        ">I showed up, you showed up on twitter!\n\nThat's actually savage.", 
        "Calling people who got injured a no show pussy is kind of lame.", 
        "It's not like RDA didn't stop his twitter fingers whilst injured.. ", 
        "Like he wouldn't have shown up if he didn't get injured. Wipe your chest off. ", 
        "Why are you telling me he would have shown up if not for the injury? I didn't say otherwise, work on your reading comprehension. ", 
        "At the same time, it's waaay more lame to try to shit-talk a guy that showed up when you didn't.", 
        "After the whole \"broke his vagina\" stuff I think it was open-season for lame shit-talking. \n\nI get the issue with Aldo, since he actually refused to fight, but I don't see why RDA should take a vow of silence while Conor insults him at every opportunity.", 
        "The shit-talking is fine, but the timing was off. If you drop out of a fight, FOR WHAT EVER REASON, you have no right to start shit-talking the guy who went ahead and fought anyway. Just my opinion though.", 
        "Well, yeah, I understand what you mean. I don't agree with it though. If Conor had won there is no way in frozen hell he wouldn't have given RDA even more shit, so I still think it's fair game, specially since him not fighting has (very arguably) not put Conor in any disadvantage at all, having to fight the (again, arguably) less skilled and less prepared Diaz. \n\nBut y'know, opinions and all that. There is no official rulebook of shit-talk :P", 
        "I wouldn't say Diaz is less skilled. Less prepared maybe, but an amazing striker(not quite Conor-levels) and ground-game on a whole different level to Conor.\n\n", 
        "Plus his style presented a tonne of challenges Conor had never seen before.\n\nHe gets his reach advantage back against RDA, which was one of the biggest factors in this fight imo.\n\nI still was thinking RDA would win, but it is a completely different fight.", 
        "Yeah. Let's not forget how well Conor controlled that fight before he got rocked. No way he gets tagged as much against RDA... That reach advantage is some ingredients Mcgregor always uses brilliantly.", 
        "Calling Aldo pussy because he doesn't take a fight with 10 days out just don\u00a1t makes sense.", 
        "I think it's more about Aldo talking shit after the loss.", 
        "He's a pussy for jumping on social media as soon as he loses ", 
        "Just what Conor did", 
        "Calling someone a pussy on social media after he destroyed you in 13 seconds is a bit different. ", 
        "Except Aldo literally called out McGregor saying \"anytime, anywhere\" about a week or two before that. Then McGregor said \"ok, how about 196\" and Aldo went \"lol nvm\"...and then had the nerve to call Conor a pussy.\n\nLook, Conor got his ass handed to him. Period. But he's right, Aldo has been acting like a total bitch.", 
        "But Aldo did say any time anywhere.", 
        "And that it wasn't about the title. \n\n...until it is about the title and he won't take the fight any time anywhere.", 
        "Not really. What's savage is talking about how great you are and how quickly you'll dispatch your opponent and then getting humiliated on the ground and quitting against that opponent. That's savage.", 
        "Omg so SAVAGE LOL savage haha savage", 
        "Then he showed up on instagram lmao", 
        "Lol, he signed to fight both of them.\n\nCan't fight someone that doesn't turn up.", 
        "...After taking the fight, which was the point. He offered Aldo the fight after Aldo literally said \"anytime anywhere\". Aldo turned it down and then talked online.\n\n100% different.", 
        "Sav birds", 
        "McGregor speaking the truth", 
        "It's true though. I respect good trash talking but it's pretty absurd that Aldo turned down the fight and hid behind Nate Diaz to trash talk. Completely dishonorable.", 
        "> When the history books are written, I showed up. You showed up on Twitter. \n\nYou took a badass quote and rewrote it to be like a line in a high school rap battle. \n\nYou misquote it and added a \"!\" at the end... just why \n\n> I showed up, you showed up on twitter!\n\n", 
        "Yeah, by the time I realised that it had already exploded... it got the point across,  so I don't care.", 
        "[Nick said it better with his hands](http://i.imgur.com/aryI7VI.gif)", 
        "I love this gif", 
        "I couldn't believe nobody has posted it yet", 
        "He's not wrong either. ", 
        "Yeah that broken foot is a stupid excuse. ", 
        "Did you see how big that thing was? Can you imagine getting kicked by that?! If anything, it's a weapon! ", 
        "He kinda is with RDA. I mean, what is he supposed to do? He fucked up and broke his foot, that makes him unlucky at best and careless at worst, but it doesn't make you a coward.", 
        "I think if you're injured you should keep the trash to a minimum. Here RDA is just trying to relevant since his missed out on a pretty decent check and would Kiel another chance. If Conor loses again he ain't seeing that red panty night.", 
        "Diaz cost RDA millions haha.", 
        "Eeder", 
        "\u00c9der Ant\u00f3nio Macedo Lope ?", 
        "Eeder? I hardly know her!", 
        "trigger fingers turn to twitter fingers", 
        "The fuck are you talking about ", 
        "You gettin bodied by an Irish ginger", 
        "bruh! underrated comment of the thread", 
        "Daaaaaaaaammmn", 
        "209god", 
        "Dropped my phone on my face. Holy fuck haha!", 
        "If you are not lying down that's weird", 
        "I was hanging upside down actually. ", 
        "swingin' ginger*", 
        "holy shit", 
        "you win.", 
        "I'm not the type of ginger that'll type at gingers", 
        "Make sure u hittem with the uppercut!!! Damn tell that man to ease up...", 
        "Meek taking losses in a MMA forum. His career is fucking over.", 
        "As if it wasn't over already... ;)", 
        "[He looks shattered...](https://scontent-lga3-1.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/e35/12797816_489880501223018_230313621_n.jpg?ig_cache_key=MTE5NTM3NDk2MzI2MDUzOTM0OA%3D%3D.2)", 
        "Kayne doesn't look that bad off either, but he is $53 mil in debt...", 
        "Take notes Ronda ", 
        "She doesn't need to, she lost The belt and her very next fight will be winning it back from Misha, Dana needs a cash cow ", 
        "Well, to be fair, Ronda has to recover from having her jaw wired shut too", 
        "I was thinking \"Take notes Cam\".", 
        "Ronda got knocked out, Conor threw a weak shot and gave up his back to avoid that exact thing happening to him. Two completely different fights. ", 
        "I gonna kill myself!", 
        "Ronda did the same thing on instagram except it was a lot shorter and didn't call anyone out.", 
        "She would be silent for 2months and then go on a talkshow and say she felt forced by the media and the fans to take the fight anyways and she is the victim and suicidal.", 
        "Even Ronda's response to the Holm-Tate fight last night had me shaking my head in disbelief.\n\nShe texted Dana something like 'time to get back to work' when Miesha won. I mean, sure, that's just one text, but does that not *scream* 'mentally unprepared' to anyone else?\n\nShe literally just stated how she's only going to prepare now that Holly lost to someone Ronda has defeated already. That's just shy of admitting she wanted nothing to do with Holly and is only willing to do this against someone she's beaten already.\n\nI feel like there's a distinct flaw in that mindset, and it's only adding to this crazy mountain of things she's said and done recently. Maybe I'm alone, but I thought that was insane.", 
        "It makes a lot more sense when you consider  how much she hates Meisha Tate", 
        "I was thinking about that and it's quite likely Dana just made that up to build hype, why would you trust a word he says? Unless Ronda actually comes out and says something like that herself I'd be hesitant to believe the promoter of the company", 
        ">She literally just stated how she's only going to prepare now that Holly lost to someone Ronda has defeated already. \n\nThat's not what she *literally* said, that's how you chose to interpret an article that quoted Dana who was recalling from memory what Ronda wrote in a text message. Based on Ronda's history of consistently training through injuries for the past 18 years, I seriously doubt she's spent the last four months sitting on her ass watching netflix or something, doing nothing to prepare for her next fight. Do you think you might have misinterpreted what Dana said? Or did I misinterpret what you wrote?", 
        "Overanalyzing 101", 
        "Reach level:Halo.", 
        "Yea. This is how you handle your third loss.", 
        "People would have attacked Ronda regardless of what she said or did after that fight.", 
        "Basically because she deserved it. I legit think she has mental health issues. She is ridiculously insecure. Like clinically so.", 
        "good. she's a cunt", 
        "Exactly.  This subs a joke lot of times and will always step on her lol ", 
        "Because leading up to the fight, she was a bitch.", 
        "And Conor is a bitch leading up to every fight. It's why they both sell so damn well", 
        "No way. Conor hypes a fight really well. It feels way better for some reason than watching Ronda. Ronda on TUF was a dick. Conor on TUF was likeable. ", 
        "Nah, if she was humbled and said she would come back stronger ASAP and switch camps people would have liked her ", 
        "Absolutely, but she gave them even more ammunition, more to mock and laugh at.", 
        "The only thing I don't like about Ronda is her nasty, nasty personality. I *want* to like her- she's one of the most talented fighters on the planet. But she's a total asshole.\n\nIf she had hung her head, acknowledged her mistakes, and praised her opponent, I would 100% be on the 'fuck yeah Rousey is the SHIT' wagon. But instead she tucked tail, refused to understand where she went wrong and blew everything out of proportion.\n\nPeople love when people have a change of heart. And Ronda needs one more than almost anyone in the UFC.", 
        "Now that I think about it I agree with you, Conor is a star, but as Goldie said like six times during the fight Ronda is a rockstar and with her losing there was gonna be outcry afterwords. Brock said it best that she didn't learn how to lose before she learned how to win. Conor seems to have got that down and I'm curious to see how he bounces back from this. ", 
        "Well Goldie did say Connor was the biggest star in the world right now....\n\n.......", 
        "Did he? I wasn't really paying attention, the only reason I remember Goldie saying that about Ronda is cause I went back and watched that fight three times or so. Either way he isn't wrong.", 
        "Maybe, but they might have been wrong to criticize her. Based on what she did, anyone who criticizes her is right. What she ended up doing was a clinic on what not to do. ", 
        "What did she do??", 
        ">What she ended up doing was a clinic on what not to do.  \n  \nWhat did she do? (This is not being argumentative, I wasn't following MMA at the time) ", 
        "Didn't do anything really. She just disappeared..", 
        "Basically, up until the fight she was rather classless.  Wouldn't touch gloves, pulled Holm's arm into her own face and screamed from the top of a mountain that Holm punched her.  Called out Holm non stop saying Holm hasn't done anything, she is a fake etc.  Holm for all intents and purposes beat the hell out of her for a round and a half.  \n\nAfter the loss, Ronda literally vanished.  Suddenly her lip was too busted, she skipped the presser and ALL interviews for a few weeks.  She basically talked a big game, pulled some bull shit stunts and then when she lost, she pretty much ran and hide (and that's actually more literal than anything.  She went off the grid until her movies started to shoot)", 
        "IDK man. Criticizing a person after losing at such a high level, while being referred to as one of the best MMA fighters ever,  is cold hearted at best. \n\nShe was obviously devastated after that fight, so I don't think it's fair to say \n\n> then when she lost, she pretty much ran and hide\n\nAnd even if she did, so what? There's absolutely nothing wrong with what she did or how she handled the loss. ", 
        "Ronda possibly has the weakest mental fortitude in all of the UFC", 
        "Oh wait, I do remember that lol. I see now why that was bizarre", 
        "I remember her on Ultimate Fighter saying she has always basically been a sore loser.  She'd be the girl at the gym who cries uncontrollably when anything goes wrong.  At the same time she was never losing at Judo, though.  Everyone handles their shit differently and she could have done way worse than just disappear for awhile.", 
        "She also went on Ellen and admitted that she was suicidal after the loss, so... that begets a person who probably has some mental health issues, regardless of losing a single match.", 
        "I'm not sure if I should interpret her suicidal confession as her being extremely passionate about her sport, regretful about her poor sportsmanship, or just a petty immature loser who needs to grow up. ", 
        "For some reason she always reminded me of a certain redheaded pilot from NGE...", 
        "I think of that as a she was like a kid that found out that Santa Claus didn't exist. Everything she knew in her MMA world was that she was the best. Her existence consisted of being the best. When she lost as bad as she did, her \"world\" came crashing down. That can cause some severe depression if it's big enough in adults", 
        "Since this particular thread is about how Ronda handled the loss so poorly, are you saying she should've kept her suicidal thoughts a secret? I think if a high-profile person like Ronda publicly discusses mental health issues like that, it's a good thing. Maybe other suicidal people saw that and found solace in knowing that a person who was built up to be this impenetrable, invincible, unstoppable force of nature actually does have human flaws and weaknesses. It's helping to break the taboo of discussing mental health issues and in my opinion, it takes balls to talk about her psychological issues when she's been cultivating a persona based on absolute strength for so long.", 
        "Don't forget that as a message from a \"strong female role model\" that she also said there that she realized that she shouldn't kill herself because she still had a reason to live: Bear a child for her abusive still-married boyfriend who already has a couple kids.\n\nThere you go girls, you can be a multi-millionaire, make it to the top of multiple competitive sports, be desired and respected by millions, but you're one failure away from ultimately having your only reason to live be becoming a baby factory for whatever sleezeball you might hook up with.", 
        "Tell me about your life.", 
        "That's a ridiculous distortion of what she said. \n\n>\"I looked up at him and I was like, I need to have his babies. I need to stay alive,\u201d she said. \u201cI don\u2019t know if I\u2019d have made it without him.\u201d\n\nHow could you possibly read this and say that her only reason to live is to be a baby factory for whatever sleezeball she's hooking up with? She obviously meant that she wanted a baby for herself, trying to express that she felt the need to fill the hole left by her defeat. You're framing it like she meant that she's worthless now and is only good for making babies for her boyfriend. Is there anything that Ronda could say, post-UFC 193, that half of this subreddit wouldn't use to twist around and attacker her?", 
        "Uh if Rousey sees that her purpose in life is to be a mother, who are you to disparage her? And how is it anti-feminist (your implication) of her to see motherhood as virtuous? She's not saying that's *women's* role, but that it is *her* role.\n\nBeing a \"strong woman\", being successful, being desirable, and being a mother are not mutually exclusive. And I say this as somebody who 80-20 will never have kids, so it's not like I'm trying to defend my decisions. But I don't appreciate your implications one bit.", 
        "Ronda isn't a strong woman though, except in the literal sense. She is clearly fucked in the head and has been all her life from her upbringing in judo with way too much pressure on her. I'm not hating on her either, she clearly has serious self esteem and mental health issues.", 
        "Feminist or not is never something I care to think about, don't try to categorize me at either end of that spectrum please, both are equally shallow-minded and annoying.\n\nAnyone with the working parts can have a child, there are about 2 billion of them on Earth right now to illustrate that point. What is far less common is good parents, who teach their kids values and life strategies and coping mechanisms to get through life. And based on what she's said in interviews including this one, while she has the parts to be a Mother, in no way is she mentally and emotionally fit to be one.\n\nI never said that you can't be successful and desirable and respected and everything AND a mother, don't put words in my mouth. But I do believe it's a horrible mindset to think that none of that stuff matters compared to cranking out another kid for some douchebag on our already over-populated planet. And that because of one failure in an otherwise successful life she should have killed herself if not for the fact that it's of the utmost important that she bear a child. \n\nWe are past the point that we need to breed like rabbits just to survive as a species, quality is much more important than quantity at this point. Just like anything else in life, just simply doing something shouldn't be looked upon as nearly as important as doing it WELL.  And the idea that the only thing she had worth living for is just to breed is a twisted and shallow way of thinking, and probably not one that will make for good parenting. For both men and women, there are many things they can do to contribute and make a mark on this world just as much if not far more than being a parent.  ", 
        "Oh I get it. You're edgy.", 
        "There's nothing anti-feminist about wanting kids. If she wants to have kids and a career, that's her prerogative. ", 
        "I see nothing wrong with wanting kids and wanting to be a good parent and example for them. I do think it's screwed up for someone with her accomplishments to think that they should kill themselves because of one failure, but having a kid is the only thing keeping them from doing it. Not much hope for being able to be a stable parental figure from that mindset imo.", 
        "Yeah, she has mental health issues and has opened up about them, what an asshole! Right? Kids' role models should pretend suicidal thoughts and other mental health issues don't exist or only crazy, weak people suffer from them.", 
        "The problem is that we think of pros as role models when they shouldn't be. I respect Ronda and Conor as great athletes, but they aren't my role models. Don't consider pros to be unfailing role models, think of them as people like us who are very good at a certain thing.", 
        "Never understood people looking up to role models and thinking that all of their behavior should be emulated. Good for taking solace in knowing even the greats of something are vulnerable etc, but at the same time it's probably more of a shame that people don't have more friends/family members that they consider in the same light.  \n\n", 
        "But Ronda ate up that role model persona and tried to force it on people. Look at her last few Embeddeds, where she spends the whole time giving weird motivational speeches.\n\nIf you're going to embrace the role model persona and force it on people, damn right you deserve to get criticized for being unsportsmanlike and classless.", 
        "I don't hate Ronda, In fact, I almost always cheer for her. But skits like the \"do nothing bitch\" are annoying, if not outright judgemental.", 
        "Ronda can also take notes from Holly, she said she wants to fight as soon as possible, she's thirsty and it shows. ", 
        "Holly got choked out. Ronda received so much damage to her head that she was completely out cold for a period of time and was left hospitalized with her teeth rearranged. I know this subreddit hates Ronda now but come on, those are two **very** different losses from a physical standpoint alone. That's completely ignoring all the other differences that make yours an unfair comparison.", 
        "I don't hate Ronda, but after that fight she doesn't look like a champion that wants to take her belt back. What we've heard is that she doesn't want to see the video, that she thinks she's still undefeated, that she was suicidal, that reporters shouldn't ask her about fighting and so on. Holly went there and said \"too bad, it sucks but I will do whatever I can as soon as I can to take that belt back\". No bullshit or tip-toeing.", 
        "Meisha Tate choked out Holm?", 
        "Sorry if it was a spoiler, did you not see it? Holly was completely asleep, unconsciously punching the air with Meisha strapped to her back with a deep RNC. Holly went out pretty quickly once Meisha got the choke on her. She didn't tap!", 
        "No spoiler. I don't consider spoiler sports applicable. It's too fluid. I knew Meisha won, but I didn't know she choker her out.", 
        "I suggest you try to find a clip of it. Ideally the entire last round. Meisha was doing well but was getting out-boxed by Holly until the last 2 minutes or so. Really exciting scramble and the way Meisha finished the fight was incredible. I was expecting Holly to tap but I don't think she has the experience to know when to admit defeat when it comes to this submission so instead of her tapping, we see her start throwing slow air-punches while she's unconscious.", 
        "Oh man that's brutal. I just subscribed to fight pass so it'll be available in a couple of weeks. ", 
        "Yes in the 5th round.", 
        "Rhonda also was talking about retiring soon to start a family even before the loss.", 
        "Huh, I didn't know that.", 
        "It may have been just a rumor though", 
        "Rhonda Holmes?", 
        "What", 
        "Also: let's face it: Ronda gets a title fight whenever she wants. Holly needs to get back in there and make something happen to maintain momentum cause no one knows what'll happen.", 
        "How to lose with pride 101", 
        "Didn't he say weight classes don't matter? Why is he bringing up 2 weight classes? \nSpeaking of weight classes, if he jumped 2, then Nate jumped 1. So effectively, he was really only fighting a fighter 1 weight class above him (Nate fights at 155). Add to that they were both fighting at their walking around weight and Conor cuts a ton of weight to fight smaller guys below where he should probably be fighting.\n\nIt really didn't sound prideful losing. It sounded like excuses and telling his followers what the script is. If you say you're humble in victory and defeat, chances are you're probably not.", 
        "You got too be kidding me", 
        "I miss Pride", 
        "Have pride, not suicide.", 
        "Except Ronda decided not to lose, or whatever it was she said on Ellen.", 
        "Stay alive to have Travis' babies.", 
        "Ronda decided to go the denial route", 
        "Wait what? Link? What did she say?", 
        "That she's decided to stay undefeated or some bullshit like that. Just search on YouTube \"Ellen Rousey\"", 
        "I'll retire undefeated", 
        "Just google Ronda Rousey on Ellen. She said she considers herself undefeated because that is her mental state basically.", 
        "Agreed. Can we have a source or elaboration. All I heard was she said she felt like crap after the fight.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "She was in denial though, in that fight she did not look like someone who should be considered undefeated as much as she'd like it to be.\n\nI don't think the way you handle the loss gives you enough clearance to disregard that failure.", 
        "In denial on Ellen and in denial prior to the fight aren't the same thing though.\n\nWhat does going on Ellen and saying 'I'm shit im terrible' achieve.", 
        "I'm only talking about how she herself performed in the actual fight though, she lost fair and square, copped a few knocks and looked panicked.", 
        "Yes but that's the problem. We aren't talking about that. What you are doing is called a non sequitur.", 
        "Oh yeah what a bitch... /s", 
        "nothing's ever gonna keep me down..", 
        "I thought that was Meisha's song?", 
        "Except apples. Can she eat apples yet?", 
        "She said \"I really believe I'm still undefeated because being defeated is a choice. Everyone was losses in their life, but I choose to always be undefeated\"\n\nSome have taken it as \"Ronda's delusional, she thinks she won the fight\"", 
        "\"Some\" being people purposefully misconstruing it but it is the internet, whatdyagonnado?", 
        "She was defeated though if she wanted to off her self", 
        "I get what she meant, she doesn't want to be mentally defeated by the loss and she wants to get back to her best.\n\nIn the history books though she will still have a KO defeat to Holly Holm.", 
        "I see it as more of a looking at her career as an internal battle. Yes she lost the fight, but she isn't letting that \"defeat\" her. She doesn't have a perfect record anymore, but she'll never let that loss hold her down and defeat her.", 
        "She hasn't embraced the loss and learned from it. She still feels the victim of a series of unfortunate events. \n\nYou learn from your loss and you get better, you get hungry, and you overcome whatever caused you to lose in the first place. \n\nShe will be scared her next fight because she never embraced the loss. ", 
        "Even Holm responded to this to clarify it. \n\nIt's not what everyone is making it out to be. She's basically saying her way of dealing with the loss is to still see herself as a champ and to continue with an undefeated mentality. \n\nHolly said she respects that but she personally prefers to focus on the loss and to learn from her mistakes. \n\nDifferent ways to deal with it I suppose. Both have their merits. ", 
        "For how to lose in pride see Bob Sapp", 
        "Curl up and cry?", 
        "You shut your mouth about bob sapp", 
        "Yeah, Bob Sapp is a saint god damnit, have some respect.", 
        "you will respect mr sapp while speaking on the forum ", 
        "> Its still steak for breakfast\n\ner... no conor.... back to salads bud..... you still have a 145 belt to defend", 
        "Bro have you heard of Keto?", 
        "I've heard obese people do it to lose weight quickly by sacrificing their health in other areas.", 
        "It's simply cutting down on carbs. If you're getting your veggies and vitamins it's a great diet.", 
        "Why not cut down on fat since it has more than double the calories of anything else? And usually high fat foods aren't very healthy whereas high carb foods like fruits, yams, legumes, etc. are very healthy  Or cut down on protein since the average American gets way more than required.", 
        "You need to get your necessary fats though restrictions your saturated fats is important. If you cut too much fat I've noticed it can make your skin dry and does more harm than good (not linking because on mobile). You can get fats from olive oil, coconut oil, or avocado oil to name a few good sources.\n\nThose naturally occurring carbs you mentioned would also be encouraged, due to the fact that they have fiber to offset their carbohydrates. Simply having a smaller portion of especially starchy healthy veggies (i.e. sweet potatoes) is best mixed with lower carb replacements like beets or taro root.\n\nThe three mains I know are: cut carbs, track macros, and drink plenty of water.\n", 
        "I swear I read that in Faber's voice for some reason ", 
        "lmfao i just looked at it and it TOTALLY sounds like something he'd say lol", 
        "twist: it's actually faber", 
        "As soon as I saw \"bud\" I went into his voice.", 
        "Did you really just call him bud? ", 
        "Steak for breakfast is a sign of good living?  Oh shit, I'm going to Norm's!", 
        "Calories from steak are the same as calories from salad.", 
        "er...... theres less calories in a salad than in a steak.......", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "duh, feathers of course", 
        "Now I know you're jokin.", 
        "This response is hilarious.", 
        "Shh, don't tell Conor that's tofu. He thinks it's steak.", 
        "What about a milk steak", 
        "And raw jellybeans.", 
        "Or a block of cheese. ", 
        "maybe if you're a full on rapist\n", 
        "Boiled over hard?", 
        "Garnished with raw jelly beans", 
        "Yep. Jelly beans on the side", 
        "Raw, of course. ", 
        "What just happened?", 
        "Always Sunny in Philadelphia reference. Get on that shit!", 
        "And get some magnets.", 
        "Yes, I too remember when Pinkman and Heisen-hey wait a minute!", 
        "I think that's a reference to his expensive life style.\n\nregardless I liked your comment ", 
        "It's definitely not, since the whole 'steak vs salad' thing has been used a hundred times to discuss his size and weight", 
        "I don't think you can say that definitively. The point he is making with that line is that even though he lost this fight, he's still eating well and has money.", 
        "Like he was starving before and couldn't put meat on the table, cmon man its steak it's not the typical sign of wealth ", 
        "He was living on welfare like 7 years ago. That guy absolutely has been through some relatively (in terms of first world countries) tough times.", 
        "Steak salads?\n\nYay compromise!", 
        "Tenderloin Caesar Salad bruhh so good ", 
        "mmmmmm black and blue salad", 
        "ceasar gracie salads", 
        "he should be careful,  he may tap out while eating it.", 
        "The world isn't ready for Mystic Mac on acai.", 
        "Bro... best comment of the day, god damn", 
        "Et tu Connor?", 
        "I love the way he's handling this. I hope he understands he's got to make some changes in the training department though. Iron sharpens iron but he's the only iron at his gym. I hope his stupid take on 'loyalty' won't be his downfall.", 
        "Gotta disagree my man he might be someone who cannot be comfortable or working at his best without the guys he came up with, he'll never do it anyways ", 
        "I think it's funny that people were asking him about the weight jump, and he said it didn't matter, a champion can do any weight class, it's the McGregor Belt, but then when he loses he uses the weight jump as an excuse.\n\n", 
        "Not so sure about this. I think the real problem is his rise to stardom seems to have coincided with his camp becoming yes men. Nobody has kept him grounded. His admission that he expected to knock Nate out with just a few clean lefts is a clear example of this. He got given good corner advice but ignored it because - for whatever reason - he's not questioned when he ignores people outside of fight night.", 
        "I think in this fight it was more about a bad gameplan than bad training partners, though that could also be improved.", 
        "I agree and I was never really implying that his loss was a direct cause of bad training partners. I just meant that, now that he knows he's not perfect, he can assess anything and everything and I hope that's one of the things he does.", 
        "I seem to recall McGregor say a few times how there are no \"boyz\" in the fight game, and he is right to a certain extent\n\nBut I also recall him saying that he was humble in victory as well ", 
        "Connor didn't lose this fight from bad training, he lost it by completely misjudging the situation and not being able to adapt on the fly.", 
        "Gunner Nelson is the man. He lost a Jiu-Jitsu match to the best jiu-jitsu guy. Guys still legit.", 
        "This guy actually did it better than suicide girl. ", 
        "Talk is cheap, but if hes speaking from the heart and actually gets his ass back in the gym he'll deserve mad respect. Talking up his PPV numbers like he's already Silva makes me suspect, though. Nothing guarantees that you can handle a higher weight class even if you've done so with others.", 
        "I think he proved that all he has is the left hand.  His chin is suspect as Diaz isn't even known for his power.  lol s\n\nAnd that he needs to fight smaller guys to have a shot.  lolz", 
        "I don't really think anything that happened on the ground in that fight is a representation of his grappling abilities. his grappling didn't cost him the fight. it was because he got really reckless hunting the head (every ko artist always  falls in love with their power way too much). once he got rocked, he was out on his feet. and then once it got to that desperate td attempt the finish was just a formality. ", 
        "Iron sharpens iron, well said.", 
        "Never heard it before. Great saying ", 
        "Its biblical. Its also completely false.", 
        "Yeh I can't see it working too well", 
        "Come on man are we really say someone has to switch camps after every loss? He has high level bjj training partners and trainers. He just has to focus more on it.", 
        "I didn't even say that lol", 
        "Thought you implied it by saying you hope loyalty won't be his downfall. My mistake if I misinterpreted.", 
        "I just think he needs to widen his arsenal. He seems to be passionate about this sport and about learning so he should try to bring more trainers into his camp. I don't want him to think that just because of 'loyalty' that he cant learn from new people. He brought in Ido so here's to hoping he starts expanding his circle and makes leaps in his skill in the next few years.", 
        "I don't think he needs to change his training because he lost a fight, but what do we really know about his training?  He was doing well in the stand up game until he got rocked with that one punch.  \n\nI think he  gassed because he was going for the KO and I think Nate just flat out was able to take what he was throwing and deliver more.  Nate is the biggest fighter he's faced in the UFC and there's nothing wrong with saying \"hey, maybe that guy is too big for me to beat\".  Thats the whole reason they have weight classes.  I would like to see Conor at 155, I think there are some exciting fights for him there.  \n\nOf course he should be working on some BJJ (he does already) but he shouldn't try to be Nate Diaz on the ground.  It takes a lot of time and work to get there.  Stick to what you're good at, be aware of what you're not.  ", 
        "155 is most definitely where he belongs", 
        "> \"hey, maybe that guy is too big for me to beat\".\n\nIf that's the case, Conor needs to stay at 145, given that Nate is a 155 pounder.", 
        "I personally believe conor's reasoning for his loss. He was timing Nate's jab beautifully in the first, landing his cross counter seemingly at will. I don't think his training is what was the problem. The added muscle compiled with the fact that he was throwing too much heat looking for the predicted KO resulted in him gassing hard. And everyone knows if you gas against a Diaz brother you've already lost. The experience factor played a huge role and McGregor overestimated his ability to KO a lightweight. I think he'll learn a lot from this and come back better. ", 
        "> The experience factor played a huge role and McGregor overestimated his ability to KO a lightweight.\n\nThis was the problem IMHO and, from the post-fight-presser, seemingly in Conor's opinion too. Bought too much into his own hype and believed he could knock out anybody with a well timed left.", 
        "I think Conor can KO a lightweight just fine, just not a Diaz brother. Them Diaz' got Rocky Balboas chins", 
        "This! also Nate is really tall for a lw, I think that threw Conor off and had a big effect on Nate's (frankly amazing) ability to take those hits", 
        "Exactly this. The first round was a master class from Conor but he fought right into Diaz' strengths. He threw one leg kick and it landed well, but instead of breaking Diaz down he boxed with him tried to ko him. ", 
        "> I love the way he's handling this. I hope he understands he's got to make some changes in the training department though. Iron sharpens iron but he's the only iron at his gym. I hope his stupid take on 'loyalty' won't be his downfall.\n\nHe doesn't need to be disloyal. That's what he has to understand. He can fly in a striking, and grappling teacher, and have them teach at SBG. He has enough money to do that. His name's big enough.\n\nSharpen his skills a little bit, and he'll be good to go.", 
        "Absolutely. He can do the same thing GSP did, fly in solid coaches when needed, fly in specialist training partners, visit some trusted coaches now and then to try new stuff, and branch out to top level coaches in other disciplines. Just as long as he gets rid of the pool noodle. ", 
        "> a little bit\n\n\"a little bit\"", 
        "It ain't about that. You need training partners every training.", 
        "Dinasaur not good enough?", 
        "Fly them in too!", 
        "He needs sparring partners who will push him 100%. Like who at SBG is even close to his level of striking?", 
        "As for striking, Steve Collins was with him recently, not sure how much better it could get but would be good to see him train with the Celtic warrior", 
        "This a weird truism in MMA, it's kind of bullshit, especially for sparring. Name the toughest guy Floyd Maywhether spars with or trains with? It's nobodies, same goes for most of the best in boxing, they bring in different fighter to give them different look as sparring partners but it's  rare for it to be anyone in the top 20, sparring hard with really good guys jut ruins your chin when you have the money to like elite boxers do you bring in guys who are there just to be parring partners and can work to your demands. That is significantly better but more expensive.\n\nTLDR just because Joe Rogan said it doesn't mean it's so. ", 
        "Artem. Come on son!\nEdit: Keep it flowy", 
        "Does Bisping still train out of Manchester, because if he is, Conor should bring him in for camps.", 
        "Trains in California", 
        "There are plenty of boxers in Ireland that could give him his go, shit there might even be some at his old club in Crumlin!", 
        "and in general in Europe. He pays for people to fly in during camp and flys to them out of camp. It's not uncommon ", 
        "If I was him I'd hook up with Shane McGuigan for training", 
        "I read this quickly and saw Shane McGowan, he might be able to show him drunken boxing", 
        "Katie fucking Taylor please god. But his striking is fine, he just needs to keep practicing, but he spars really hard and makes good guys not want to come back. In SBG's younger days, a lot of those great boxers only sparred with him once. Says a lot imo. Get a couple of boxers around 170+ walking weight to train with so he can spar as he likes and have a challenge.", 
        "Andy Lee is a perfect training partner for mimicking Diaz ", 
        "what about Gunnar Nelson? Aren't they at the same gym?", 
        "Gunnar technically is at Mj\u00f6lnir in Iceland, doesn't live in Ireland but they usually do training camps together.", 
        "He is, but Gunni isn't exactly iron. Dude's the second best fighter in the gym and is unranked.", 
        "He's the second best fighter in the welterweight division when it comes to MMABJJ\n\nand he is iron", 
        "Gunni is absolutely iron in my opinion, at least when it comes to grappling.\n\nAnd I already know the response brewing to that statement, Maia is world class, like top 1%. That doesn't take away from Gunni's skill.", 
        "Totally agree, and he's a great striker too, he just doesn't do strategy/gameplans and it really hurts him sometimes.", 
        "Gunni is a great fighter though. Just because he's unranked doesn't mean he can't challenge conor. His only losses are to Maia (a fight Gunnar went into with the worst game plan imaginable) and Rick Story (whos known for derailing up and comers). He could easily be a force in a few years and you won't find a much better rolling partner other than someone like Maia.  ", 
        "Besides that, everywhere source on the MMA scene I follow praised Gunnar for the way he endured and defended himself against Maia on the mat\n\nGrappling sometimes fly above people heads. Maia is a beast on the ground and Gunni fumbled out of it like few in the promotion could", 
        "Not many people could survive 3 rounds of a newly aggressive Demian Maia on their back. Though testing his grappling against arguably the best mma grappler in the UFC was idiotic in retrospect, the fact that he was able to defend all the sub attempts for 15 mins (while also getting beat up pretty badly) is a good testament to Gunnar's skill. ", 
        "Are we, maybe, getting to a common denominator here? \n\nGuys need to step up their camping/gym game? ", 
        "I think what Gunni needs is better strategy and an actual gameplan when he goes into a fight instead of his zen attitude of \"wherever it goes is fine with me\"\n\nif he'd gone for a Maia strategy against Story he probly woulda submitted him, but he didn't try to force takedowns and when it did go down he failed to keep it there\n\nif he'd kept the Maia fight standing at all costs he would've won for sure, instead he was like \"I'm happy to go to the ground with him\"", 
        "Same here, mate.\n\nAnd I really think better coaches could add a lot in that regard. Not that Kavanagh is a bad one. It's just that Gunni and Connor are gifted fighters and it doesn't look like their talent is being finely honed like we'd like it to be - in camp just as well as in-between rounds.\n\n", 
        "Yeah I think Connors ground game is better then what people are talking about. Gunnar is an incredible BJJ fighter who has taken part of big BJJ tournaments. I'm sure Diaz really hurt him and he was just rocked and couldn't defend him self. ", 
        "I hear this a lot. Conor looked like shit on the ground vs Mendes and looked like shit on the ground vs Diaz. What evidence do we have for his ground game being good?", 
        "Also I've seen Gunnar and Connor wrestle a lot and Connor is no idiot on the floor. Gunnar Nelson is one of the best bjj fighters in the UFC, he has two Gold and two silver medals from the Pan American Championship which is the largest BJJ tournament in north america. He rolled with Damian Maia for three rounds and was never close to loosing. I truly belive Gunnar would beet Demian Maia in a BJJ fight. But he still needs to improve the boxing into his MMA game. Demian Maia did a lot of damage to him on the ground and gave Gunnar no room to work.", 
        "You think Gunnar would beat Maia in BJJ? Don't be silly.", 
        "Yeah I'm pretty sure he would if Maia couldn't ground and pound him. Gunnar's plan was to submit him but got hurt early which would not happen in a BJJ fight. You really should check out his BJJ game. ", 
        "He looked comfortable against Diaz on the ground in the first round before he got rocked.", 
        "It works both ways. In reality, we haven't seen nearly enough of McGregor's ground game to make an informed statement on it.", 
        "There was nothing to see on the ground vs. Diaz. It was just a hurt man laying down to his defeat. Gave his back and neck right away. ", 
        "it will be. He'd be an absolute animal if he moved to wink or alpha male or a gym to teach him how to grapple. Conor is helping no one by sparring with artem and playing touch butt with ido", 
        "He needs an ego adjustment and tristar", 
        "tristar conor would be a thing of beauty", 
        "It would be one of the best places for him to fix the holes in game. Firas is a beast of a coach", 
        "He's good friends with Urijah now, so I'm sure TAM would love to have him. Damn I feel like Urijah could have a good shot against Cruz if he trains with Conor", 
        "I honestly would love to see them train together, conor teach uriah about movement and counter punching, uriah teach conor about submissions and take downs, would be a thing of beauty", 
        "I love this. Wink's WBW champ gets de-throned via grapplefuck literally 15 minutes before Conor loses, and you say \"He needs to go to Wink to learn to grapple!\"", 
        "grapplefuck? uh...... miesha completed 2 of 9 takedown attempts and holly fought off 2 submission attempts, she just made a mistake of panicking and rolling while in a submission attempt, plus holly did fine in the clinch . I was rooting for miesha but she didnt get grapplefucked, she made a mistake in the last 90 seconds of a 25 minute fight (that she most likely had been winning on the scorecard 49-46 ) that a veteran like miesha took full advantage of", 
        "In jiu jitsu there are layers of defence right. TDD. Guard. Half guard. Half guard knee shield. Then there are submission escapes, hand fighting, maintaining under hooks where appropriate, sweeps etc. Holly demonstrated only one layer of defence yesterday. TDD. That's all she's got. She couldn't even get back to guard once she was down. She wasn't hand fighting correctly. She was tucking her chin like a white belt to defend submissions. If Meisha hadn't run out of time in the first it would have been all over. Granted her TDD is pretty exceptional. But you need additional layers after that when it fails. Holly demonstrated she doesn't have those layers. ", 
        "She did alright in the clinch against Ronda and escaped a couple of her armbar attempts. ", 
        "Oh don't get me wrong. I talked up her TDD which includes her clinch escapes. But once she had someone push through that like Meisha she just had *nothing*.  I'm surprised more people aren't talking about this. Like I said, no layers. This wasn't a Chad Mendes sitting in McGregors guard type moment, she didn't even *have* a guard for Meisha to pass. She was constantly giving up her back in the scrambles. In the first she was lying shoulders flat on the mat, not trying to shrimp, not trying hard enough to get back to guard. Defending RNC's by tucking her chin, not hand fighting. It really was white belt stuff. \n\nEven that throwing Meisha over her should to escape the RNC was terrible. That just sunk it in further. If she wanted to do anything in that moment, she wanted to do the opposite and get Meisha's back to the canvas and walk her shoulders back to the mat and try and turn into her. But instead she went for the rookie suicide throw and just made it 1000x worse.", 
        "Im not saying shes demian maia, but shes average, plus JW does have some pretty skilled grapplers like cowboy and JBJ", 
        "Yeah to be fair, she's the worst I think we've seen out of Jackson Wink. That or she just forgot everything she knows about grappling last night. Usually they are pretty good. I was just taking the piss with my original comment. ", 
        "Tbh i think she got lazy, she got caught, and panicked. She got through 24/25 minutes of the fight and was convincingly winning the fight, miesha just always finds a way God damn it! :P", 
        "You know if Meisha had won the fifth (which she probably would have even if she didn't sink the choke) it was likely going to a draw right? Everyone thinks Holly was doing wonderful except for on the ground. Reality is she dropped the second to a 10-8 by the official score cards, was playing a cautious counter striking game against a girl who really wasn't giving her much to work with. She wasn't making Meisha pay for those repeated takedown attempts. She wasn't really hitting Meisha. She wasn't really convincingly winning the fight at all.  ", 
        "Oh, I PERSONALLY dont think holly was winning, but this i know whenever its a close round, the judges often say \"fuck it, let give it to the champ\", so I could see 1, 3, 4 and 5 until the takedown going Holly's way (i thought she lost rounds 1 and 3)\n\n\nIts what i despise about the scoring system. Someone can BARELY and controversially win 3 or 4 rounds and not be convincing at all, but then all of a sudden on the score card its a oneside blowout. Fuck the 10 point system", 
        "I think Tristar would be a great fit for him.\n\nDoing some training under Firas Zahabi, with GSP, Rory, Bones, Wonderboy, Sage, to train/spar with. Plus Muay Thai legend Saenchai will be spending the next few months training there. And John Danagher  popping in with some grappling nuggets. \n\nI would love to see Conor's game after a few extended visits at TriStar", 
        "I dont think he will be changing gyms. I do think he should hire some real top guys for some more challenging sparring/rolling", 
        "The touch butt helps me. ", 
        "make sure you do it with a dork at the park", 
        "> wink or alpha male or a gym to teach him how to grapple. \n\nOh, like Wink taught Holm how to grapple?! Oh, that would be fantastic for Conor.\n\nWink gym is overrated. They have a prodigy (Jon Jones) like Conor's gym has Conor (a lesser prodigy, but still one) and that's it. Every other fighter is either unbalanced (Holm) or just kind of good (Ubereem, Arlovski, and others I can't even name). I like these fighters but let's keep it real.", 
        "Well.... theres also cerrone", 
        "You mean the guy who gets depressed before a title shot? Again, I like these fighters but that gym isn't a hub of super-elite UFC fighters.", 
        "Or maybe he can get Ryan Hall in part-time to train @ SBG. Ryan Hall was apparently over there sparring with Artem in prep for his TUF 22 Finale with Saul Rogers when he got called up. ", 
        "That would definitely be interesting, ryan hall is a fucking bjj magician lol", 
        "He's helping Ido not have to change his name back to Brian Porter and take a job at his dad's accounting firm in Orange County. ", 
        "Him at alpha male would be awesome", 
        "The idea of Conor at Jackson wink, or honestly even musclepharm / team elevation is just... holy fuck i'd love it. Both of those camps have ridiculously low injury rates and they train intelligently, but they also have the best in the world training there. Alpha male is on a huge decline at the moment and is... frankly pretty poorly managed.", 
        "goddamn, if conor trained at wink or in Montreal....", 
        "fucking savage", 
        "He knocked out Aldo in 13 seconds. He got tagged by Nate and was out on his feet. He went up 2 weight classes and won the first round. His training at SBG is fine. Yes he can make some adjustments, but there's no chance in hell he's leaving. ", 
        "i know he wont leave and im not saying hes in trouble if he stays, but i without a doubt think he'd really hit his full potential elsewhere. He wont do it though, too loyal", 
        "He doesn't need to move to a camp like alpha male or jacksons. Can anyone tell me who MM trains with? Does Holm need to move camps now since she lost the same way? Everyone overreacts after a loss that they forget what he did before this fight, he will make adjustments and bring in whoever he needs.", 
        "That aside, I sure wish he would ditch Ido and the fucking pool noodle. ", 
        "MM is at AMC Pankration in washington state (nope, no one else has come out of that gym). And no, because Jacksonwink has and has produced good grapplers. SBG products all have glaring holes in their ground game, gunnar nelso got mauled by maia, artem got hounded by ryan hall, and now conor got submitted by diaz and also showed signs of struggling vs mendes", 
        "McGregor hardly got submitted though, he was already done then collapsed in front of Nate.", 
        "Getting manhandled by Maia is not indicative of glaring holes in his ground game. \n\nIt simply means it is not able to cope  with the guy with the most controlling top game in the sport(or thereabouts).", 
        "Everything thinks this is the answer to all the problems is joining one of the big camps. Don't get me wrong they have great fighters but it isn't the be all and end all. Alpha Male and Jacksons have 0 champions right now but that doesn't make them bad either.\n", 
        "yeah but between the two, they have 6 ex champions", 
        "ex being the important word, the big problem is the 'fight any time any weight' any other fighter would pull out of that fight in 9 days. RDA and Diaz are different fighters and have different strengths. If this fight was made at the same time as when RDA was I would be inclined to agree with you about SBG.", 
        "thats a fair point, although conor always boasts about how SBG doesnt gameplan,, they just try to \"get better\", now no one knows what that really means, but i dont think conor sparring with Artem every day is gonna benefit him much at all. One of the biggest advantages of big gyms is just going up against guys who test you, thats why DC loves training at AKA with cain so much, when you're so much better than anyone in your gym, you can only do so much. A glaring example was in an embedded video where Artem was in an interview and said how it was hard for conor to go forward because he was already so good  (compared to SBG fighters), and he's right", 
        "Every fighter is different, MM has this connection with Matt Hume but isn't training with best guys every day to improve, same with Stipe Miocic.", 
        "To be fair, Maia is probably the best BJJ practitioner in the UFC, and Nate and Ryan Hall aren't far behind.", 
        "You'd swear SBG was a community centre club, not the best gym in europe.", 
        "Yeah, getting schooled by Maia and Hall aren't a knock against anyone.  Also, pretty sure Hall has trained at SBG, and Nelson and Maia talked about meeting up as well.", 
        "Glaring holes losing to scrubs like Ryan hall and maia. GLARING.", 
        "Well said. He lost his first fight in five years (fighting in a new division) and people are suggesting he needs to uproot and find a new gym? The MMA community are a fickle bunch.", 
        "I think the basic sentiment is that his ground game is a hole and people will try to exploit that. So if he wants to round out his fight game he needs to bolster that. To your point though, he doesn't need to switch camps to do that but he does need to find a way to train a bit differently.\n\nEdit: With that said though, it wasnt his lack of ground game that cost him the match. He got rocked and went down out of desperation.", 
        "Makwans there now too and he's a legit wrestler, although I'm not sure how good Finnish wrestling is tbh.", 
        "Edited.\n\nThought I heard rumblings that he wasn't content with SBG but I guess he [enjoys it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PlkQxJDVnF4)", 
        "Dang thats unfortunate really.", 
        "That's not what he said in this recent article? \nhttp://www.bloodyelbow.com/2016/2/24/11103502/ufc-interview-makwan-amirkhani-mike-wilkinson-fight-night-london-conor-mcgregor-sbg-ireland-finland", 
        "Where to begin with this one.. Makwan did very well at SBG, posted many times about enjoying the atmosphere and way he was treated, has publicly stated on a number of occasions that he's moving there full time soon. And post fight he said \"I'm doing fine on my own\" with regards to his management situation, not related to gym or coaching.", 
        "Hmm I must have misread something. Thanks for the heads up. I thought he was talking about both management and gym situation. Will correct my message.", 
        "No problem :)", 
        "He should ask Nate if he can come train in Stockton. Wouldn't that be the coolest shit ever? Nick Nate and Conor all buddies smoking joints and shit? ", 
        "I'm sure there is room in Nate's sunday morning BJJ class for Conor to join up", 
        "I love when guys do this after they fight but I think that Conor genuinely wants to fight him again at SOME point.", 
        "I'd watch the fuck out of this show", 
        "The Diaz bros would be really well received in Ireland too.", 
        "yeah him flying them out to help train would be a great PR move, not gonna happen tho since Conor wants a rematch", 
        "It could be a sitcom tv show on fightpass, right along with a show starring cowboy and sage northcutt", 
        "Nate and Conor meeting up with Sage and Cowboy to challenge each other in some non-mma challenge every week. I would each the shit out of that. ", 
        "Throw in some cross training at alpha male", 
        "We've had a long line of olympic medalists in greco. Makwan has competed at the national level, which is still pretty legit.", 
        "The United States has amassed 125 Olympic medals in wrestling, both greco and freestyle. Finland has 85 medals, with a population of 5 million. Finnish wrestling is legit as fuck.", 
        "You can't really compare like that because us wrestlers train folkstyle up through college which is much better suited to mma due to the top control differences compared to free or greco, with greco being the least valuable to mma out of the three", 
        "Whoa, shit, I had no idea the Fins were that mad about wrestling.", 
        "Teemu Packalen performed well at UFC London. Seems like a very talented wrestler", 
        "That is pretty damn interesting.  Thanks for the post.", 
        "Cool stat of the day. Thanks for that.", 
        "You weren't kidding. Makwans even more impressive.", 
        "I find the idea of Conor moving gyms incredibly unlikely and kind of ridiculous. Most guys do that to save money.\nHe's got enough of it to bring the top guys in to his camp to help him.\nI hope he goes that route.", 
        "I can't see him moving. UNLESS he loses his next fight. Then I could see him tweaking a break and surfacing at one of the top gyms to be honest.", 
        "Exactly, it's not like GSP was training with any names up in Montreal. He literally paid Greg Jackson and Winklejohn and a bunch of other Jackson fighters to come to him in Montreal to train. ", 
        "oh im positive its ricicuolus. With conors loyalty, he'll never leave SBG, but could you just imagine the beast jackson wink or tristar would turn him into, hes already one of the best P4P fighters in the world at a gym hes by far outgrown, have him sparring with rory or cowboy every day at practice and conor would steamroll the LW division imo", 
        "I just couldn't see Conor living on the BMF ranch with Cerrone and them. That is too low key of a lifestyle for Conor, who loves driving around in his Rolls Royce from mansion to mansion, loves going out to fancy places and generally being seen. On the flip side, Cerrone spends his time on an isolated ranch training, doing redneck shit, and drinking beers. That is pretty much the two polar opposites in terms of lifestyles. I don't think there would be a good mesh there. \n\n\n\nI could see Conor going to Wink, and maaaaaybe Tristar. I would love for GSP to work with Conor and teach him how to really grapple. If that were to happen then we could really see Conor being one of the best the UFC has ever had. Alas I don't think any move is in the books because Conor is very loyal to his gym and his training partners which is unfortunate. Maybe they can get some other good fighters to come join the gym with him but right now Artem and Gunni just aren't good enough training partners to push Conor to the top of his game.", 
        "We all know Jon Jones loves that low key lifestyle ;) I bet he would fit in just fine, but I doubt he ever does it. ", 
        "If he loses his next fight I personally think a move becomes a possibility. And so does a pretty significant holiday.", 
        "The only move I'd see him making is to Tristar to go work with GSP. Dana might attempt to put a UFC TV show together following the crew at Tristar if both McGregor AND Sage Northcutt are there at the same time. ", 
        "If love to see him there. But personally I think he will cut back to 145, butcher Edgar and Aldo and then be back to essentially normal.", 
        "Yeah 145 seems realistic, it's funny because people (including Conor) were saying how good it was for him to not have to cut serious weight and go through pre-weigh in dehydration. Conor did look a long healthier at the weigh in while fighting @170 than he does when he comes in @145. I have no doubt that he'll steamroll the 145 division but what happens when he jumps up to 155 with Nate Diaz and RDA not to mention others.", 
        "I think he will be a competitive top 10 LW.\n\nBut he goes from being basically the biggest FW anybody has seen too being a pretty titchy LW.", 
        "i think you've got an idea for a sitcom.", 
        "About what?", 
        "I feel like Montreal would suit conor", 
        "Yeah Tristar is probably his best option if he were serious about changing gyms, which I don't think he is. Plus Dana would be ecstatic because it's means his 2 cash cows Conor and Sage are training together so he can capitalize off of that in some way.", 
        "Are you kidding me? I would watch a series about Conor and Cowboy 24/7. The shenanigans and shit-talking would be amazing", 
        "I really do hope they recruit some good fighters, I'd love to see full potential conor", 
        "> That is too low key of a lifestyle for Conor, who loves driving around in his Rolls Royce from mansion to mansion, loves going out to fancy places and generally being seen.\n\nBut that's not his lifestyle, that's promotion. He's got *a* nice house outside Dublin and a couple of nice cars, but the shit you see on embedded is just rented for when he's in the states for a fight. He's not going to leave SBG and he's not going to leave Ireland. If he needs more, better partners he can pay for them to come over to him.", 
        "How do you know it's rented and it's all a fake personality and style? His instagram (i know it's more promotion) still shows all the cars and the nonsense. I think that his personality is just like that hence the comments he made to Nate Diaz about being able to buy and sell him several times over.", 
        "It's rented because he doesn't live in America, he's in only there for the week before the fight, and then mostly in L.A. he doesn't have a MacMansion and $1,000,000 worth of car sitting around in Las Vegas. He live (no doubt very well) in Ireland, he gave a bunch of money to his family and still, trains at the same gym he walked into when he was 16. If you look at the interviews he does when he's not promoting fight he's a completely different person.\n\nIn the press conference he was making fun of Nate for being on welfare and teaching kids. Well, three years ago before the UFC signed him, McGregor was on welfare and teaching kids. Many fans might not know that, by Nate certainly knows it. The subtext of Conor's jibe was 'I've been here three years and look what I've achieved, you've been here nine and you're *still* poor'. What do you think Nate meant when he called him out saying 'Conor McGregor, *you've taken everything I've worked for, motherfucker'? Talking about and flashing all your money may seem crass, but getting his in the head as a job is also a bit crass. In any case, you can't do it forever  you have togo in, make your money and get out and being good at business is just as important a part of the game as getting wins. And if his style makes some people hate McGregor; good, that's just more people tuning in to see him get beat.", 
        "I think people also underestimate how important it is to build trust and understanding between coaches and athletes. You can't just show up at one of the \"top camps\" and immediately have that same strong coaching relationship or any rapport with your teammates. And you need that coaching to be successful. So I agree, and I think John Kavanagh has gotten him this far. Conor should think about spending less of his camp money on renting Bentley's and mansions and more of it on bringing in some quality training partners and someone to help resolve his grappling issues.", 
        "That's actually a plumber mentality on his part, renting stuff and showing off instead of honing your mastery. He showed beyond doubt that he has serious holes in his ground game, and that hasn't improved since his bout with Mendes.\n\nThat kind if mentality is what bothers people about him, I think. A sign of someone coming from poverty to big money, with no education to help them stay sensible and classy.", 
        "Oh please just because he has nice cars doesn't mean he's not working hard and showing mastery.  You are taking a complete outsider looking in perspective from what you see from social media or TV in the weeks before a fight and applying that to the mans life, which is pretty ridiculous.", 
        "Completely agree, but \n\n> And you need that coaching to be successful. So I agree, and I think John Kavanagh has gotten him this far. \n\nI was wondering (speculating... grasping at straws maybe) that this comment relates to what I think could have been a more important breakdown in the fight; Kavanagh possibly failing to coach Conor's 'mental' game. The corner advice posted seemed very sound, but it feels like Kavanagh trusts Conor to be cocky in promotion, but do the correct thing in the fight and he didn't do that. ", 
        "Yes, I completely agree. I think that the fight was really lost for Conor in between rounds 1 and 2. The whole Mystic Mac thing works for him until it doesn't. After predicting a first round KO and not getting it, I think the urgency with which he then began head hunting in round 2 and not setting up his left hand as well as he did in round 1 is what fucked him over. Promo-Conor and Fight-Conor have always been one seamless person, but when Fight-Conor couldn't do what he predicted in promos he fucked up. And to get back to your point specifically, I think that promo persona is bigger now to Conor than his coaching, his teammates, his skills, really bigger than anything else in his game. And that's not good. His corner advice from Kavanagh was quite good but the pressure he creates in promotion has proven to be overwhelming when the fight isn't going his way. I don't think he was listening to Kavanagh because he was only thinking of getting the early KO like he predicted and not fighting the fight that was playing out in front of him. I think he could have won that fight with the advice he was getting, maybe a decision or late finish, but he sets himself up for spectacular victories and anything less would be a loss to him. So he was losing one way or another. Hopefully they'll see what played out and Kavanagh will have an easier time getting through to Conor next time a fight doesn't go perfectly.", 
        "Freddie Roach & Manny Pacquiao", 
        "This. So many people forget that the best fighters are developed from decade-long coaching relationships, not usually switching to a top camp.", 
        "Robbie Lawler to ATT?", 
        "Exactly, and you can't just plug-and-play skills into their developed style. Conor's got a very unique striking/movement style, and likely wouldn't get the same benefit off most conventional striking coaches.\n\nThey'd try and make him more conventional, and nullify the thing he's clearly succeeding with.", 
        "I get that Conor was subbed but let's be honest. He didn't lose because he can't grapple, he was already almost out cold when he shot for that shitty double.\n\nWhen Nate took him down in the first Conor easily  swept Nate and ended that round on top, controlling top position against the cage and avoiding Nate's submissions. His grappling was great up till he got bashed on the chin with a straight left. \n\nConor is probably contemplating a lot of things but he's not sitting back wondering what he did wrong with his RNC defence.", 
        "I agree, that was a rumble \"i quit\" type RNC, but conor's weakness remains his wrestling", 
        "Probably his cockiness is his biggest weakness.  ", 
        "Unfortunately it's also one of his greatest strengths.", 
        "Them double edged swords seem to be a bitch.  ", 
        "Can't argue with that at all. When he got tagged on the chin he kinda mentioned to Diaz to bring more and then wobbled. It was silly to be honest.", 
        "Idk if it was his cockiness, i think he just didnt understand that he really wasnt that tough, he was just getting hit by guys way smaller than him. I think this loss will teach him that he isnt the iron jaw he thought he was", 
        "> Idk if it was his cockiness, i think he just didnt understand that he really wasnt that tough\n\n", 
        "That is cockiness, is it not?  Just how he presents himself makes me assume it.  I can understand how he could of bought into his hype, since he hasn't face many wrestlers who could exploit his weak ground game.  Since he is good at the stand up, he might think that he can prevent it from going to the ground by punching them silly before they can get a take down.  Diaz has an iron jaw, but CM still should of kept his hands up and not assume he could eat punches from just everyone. ", 
        "I just think conor genuinely thought he was invincible, calling out lawler and RDA, purposely keeping his hands down. I think it was good he got brought back to earth in a more or less meaningless fight instead of one with shit on the line. I think he'll come back much better, he seemed know exactly what went wrong, unlike ronda who just sulked and acted like a brat", 
        "I disagree on the easy sweep. Bate always prefers working from his guard over being in guard if you watch his other fights. It was a bad decision to pull guard with so little left in the round but its what he did. Connor did fine on the ground though. I completely agree that his grappling wasnt an issue in the fight. He had already been badly hurt before he took that shot and its definitely why he took it. ", 
        "He didn't pull guard, he scored a takedown on Conor and Conor landed a nice x-guard type sweep which is pretty rare in MMA too.\n\nThe Diaz bros are known to have a strong guard but they never pull guard. Even the best Bjj fighters don't pull guard in the ufc because more than likely all you do is give up top position and lose points while the other guy hits you.", 
        "I felt like he pulled guard once they were already on the ground. Transitioned to would of been better wording.", 
        "Werdum does :) but yeah I mostly agree", 
        "I thought of him too but honestly in the ufc his striking has come so far I think he doesn't even pull guard now. He accepted the double from Cain pretty easily because he was sure he'd get the choke but he hasn't pulled guard in the same way he did with overreem in strike force iirc", 
        "You're tripping. The double connor shot actually wasn't that bad, he got the double and then cut the corner to finish the take down really well. What happened is Nate got to quarter guard, had an overhook, and used his hips to flip Connor over and from there he got mount, ground and pounded, then got the choke when Connor gave his back up.  \n  \nConnor is a brown belt in BJJ Nate is a black belt, and a damn good black belt. ", 
        "There's only one n in Conor, and he's not tripping he's completely right about everything in that post.\n\nConor was so tired and impaired by those punches the fight was already over no matter where he went, even if his grappling was as good as Nate's he would've been submitted.", 
        "Maybe you didn't see Nate's face after the fight, in all the post conference discussions, etc. Nate took a beating, Connor's hits are no joke. Nate just had incredible endurance. If they stood standing, the longer the fight, the greater the % Connor lands a knock out hit or TKO's Nate. Nate DID have an advantage in stand up due to his boxing and his reach, but he for sure had a greater advantage on the ground.... Which was PROVEN with how the fight ended. ", 
        "Conor was doing MUCH better in the standup until one punch lil past the midway point of round 2, after that punch Nate was completely dominating him until the end, only difference if Conor had kept it standing would've been more brain damage and KO/TKO instead of RNC\n\nIf Conor hadn't been completely rocked and nearly out on his feet you would be right.", 
        "Well, it sounds like we're both pretty much in agreement. All I am saying is Connor had a better chance to win standing up then taking it to the ground.( And his takedown WAS pretty clean) Nate's BJJ is on point, and Connor's losses have always been from submission. ", 
        "Better maybe but still pretty much zero :)\n\nI actually bet a little bit on Nate winning by submission (10 dolla got me 70) even tho I expected Conor would win by KO\n\nBJJ is definitely one of his weaknesses but there's no comparing his grappling back then and now, he was basically a white belt the last time he got submitted and now he's not bad at all - he's talked about it a bit in interviews how he never took grappling seriously until he got submitted in MMA", 
        "Yeah, pretty much this.  He seemed to be hoping that he could pull another situation where yeah, maybe he gets tagged a few times, but his shots/counter-shots are more devastating.  For instance, like in the Aldo fight where he takes a shot, but moved his head to lessen the blow, while countering into Aldo's forward movement. Instead he found a much more solid chin in Nate, who certainly took a TON of abuse, and but ultimately McG got cracked. IF McG keeps either his hands up or maintains his head movement in the second round he doesn't take that brutal straight left and isn't put into a position where a super weak takedown attempt is his only viable option.  I think if McG  plays a much more conservative game, he ends up with a win either by KO or decision.  He was dominant in the first round, more so than he needed to be.  Lay that damage down over 3-4 rounds rather than trying to get it all done at once, but protect yourself as well and you come up with a W.  But as McGregor said, he got gassed given his energy expenditure and couldn't maintain a proper defense while still opening up on Diaz.  This snowballed to the point where he got fukt.", 
        "Watching the fight I did feel like when he started to lose it. He seemed to recover once he got out of the cage but I guess that take down attempt was to avoid those punches. ", 
        "I think he intentionally exposed himself for the RNC. Once he was hurt beyond recovery I think he knew enough to protect his brain and give up a submission instead. ", 
        "He knew I bet 10 bux Nate would win by submission, thanks Conor <3", 
        "This is weird, somebody with a brain commented in r/mma", 
        "This. You can watch the sub again, Nate has zero problems slipping his gloved hand in under Conor's neck and McGregor didn't even defend. Protect your neck is day one rear mount escape stuff. McGregor wasn't out classed on the ground (he hit a nice sweep earlier in the match), he got rocked.", 
        "Yeah day one day one spoken like a true bjj hobbyist. Please.", 
        "I think you're just trying to get rise out of me, but in case not... \n\nWhat do you think happened? How do you see it?\n\nOn another viewing, Diaz is actually bit sneakier with that arm. He's bracing Conor's head/posting on one arm and as he gets that last shot, he uses the jolt to Conor's head to sink the other arm. Pretty slick and efficient movement, but I still  hardly think this is an indictment of Conor's lack of ground game. You see it differently? ", 
        "I think Conor's a terrible grappler, but this is far from the first time in the UFC that somebody's been subbed easily after getting cracked. Melendez-Pettis, Henderson-Pettis, Cerrone-Henderson, Barnett-Rothwell and Velasquez-Werdum off the top of my head. ", 
        "Yeah it wasnt really an in between. You either have to be saying that McGregor's brown belt isn't worth shit or he was almost out cold so he wasn't able to apply his skills. There was no win for him on the ground with Nate Diaz. This was the best way to protect his head in a losing fight. Props to him.", 
        "Let's not forget that he didn't know there was basically exactly a minute left. However you break it down it was the right decision going for the takedown at that stage, but it was only a matter of time before Diaz got him down there.\n\nIn desperation he gambled Diaz would run out of time. He was wrong.", 
        "I didn't want Conor to win, but a lot of the critiques of his performance have been too dismissive. Sometimes it just takes one good punch. ", 
        ">Sometimes it just takes one good punch. \n\n\nSee UFC 194", 
        "Yep, I thought the same thing then. ", 
        "> Protect your neck is day one rear mount escape stuff\n\nDay one Wu-Tang stuff too.", 
        "100 percent agree people keep focusing on the grappling my attention is in his cardio at 170", 
        "have you seen the comparison shot? it's not like he was overweight at 170. ", 
        "That's different though just because he isn't overweight doesn't mean it didn't affect him. It clearly affected him. Fighting at a certain way most of his career and then moving up 25 pounds and fighting at a new weight is insane. I strongly believe had he paced himself this wouldn't have happened ", 
        "Ehh it was a 5 round fight. He needed to be able to KO Diaz or it would have ended up on the ground eventually.\n\nHad it been a 3 rounder and he had paced himself I definitely could see him taking a decision though tbh, not that that is what any of us wanted to see.", 
        "Regardless you can't be as exhausted as he was that early.", 
        "Completely agree. You shouldn't be.\n\nBut he was.\n\nIt's on him, but it was a factor in the fight.", 
        "Yep", 
        "Yeah, but he got gassed pretty quickly. Even before the straight he was slowing down considerably.", 
        "are you trying to say it was like he was stuck in the mud?", 
        "Cardio wasn't the issue. His pacing was, he chose to sprint through the first round and try to get an early knockout, used his energy unwisely - has nothing to do with weight tho, cutting doesn't help you except to get a size advantage :P", 
        "His weight was an issue you can't say it wasn't. When you fight at a lower weight and to fight the same style 20 pound heavier you will have an issue.", 
        "I dunno if you just phrased that poorly or don't understand how weight-cutting works but they regain the weight they cut before they actually step into the cage..\n\nSkipping the weight-cutting part makes them fight better, not worse.", 
        "That's not true. If I walk around at 160 and fight at 145 I will most like put on 10-14 pounds back on max. I'm also fighting at a lower weight class that I have trained for and have spent years at. Now 12 days before fighting at 155 I move up to 170 and fight at a brand new weight class with much more weight. My body will not react the same.", 
        "It was both pacing and cardio though. ", 
        "his cardio is so bad he couldn't even keep his hands up =D he has skills but if you fight an opponent that is bigger and has a reach advantage I feel like cardio is the biggest thing! You even saw it in chad fight he was dead after 10 min", 
        "Yep", 
        ">my attention is in his cardio at 170\n\nIt was a shitty gameplan or he got carried away. He was throwing bombs and whiffing them the entire fight. Previously he'd throw at 50%, 50%, 60%, 80%, 50% until his opponent crumpled. This fight every one was searching  for the KO. ", 
        "Agreed ", 
        "> This fight every one was searching for the KO.\n\nYup.  Conservative stand up fighting would have won this fight, probably for either man.  Instead we got a very chaotic situation where honestly, Diaz could have found himself in that exact situation as well.", 
        "Odd that he's doubling down on the Dos Anjos mockery. Still excited for that fight if it comes.", 
        "Agreed.  He gets rocked and submitted by Nate Diaz in the 2nd, and one of the first things he posts is, \"RDA is a pussy\"?  Doesn't seem very humble or respectful at all when he posts bullshit like that.", 
        "but everyone is back on his nuts...\n\nI mean, I respect the fighter, he did lay it on the line. but to say he's humble in defeat would be to shut the fuck up about the weight, and of all things, RDA is no pussy.\n\nAldo is no pussy either, but he didn't shut the hell up either so I guess he's fair game on that one.", 
        "because RDA and Aldo were mocking him on twitter but I mean wtf lol with all the shit talk he hurled it's insane to think they wouldn't lol.", 
        "How is that odd?", 
        "Pissed he couldn't fight for the belt.", 
        "Yeah, RDA doesn't have the same range and size benefit but he fights smart. Against Nate he stayed away from his boxing and just fucked him up with low kicks until he could take him down.\n\nRDA against Conor on the ground would be 5x as savage.", 
        "That may have been Conor responding to something. Sounds like Dos Anjos mocked him on Twitter after the fight. Conor mentioned showing up to fight rather than just showing up on Twitter. ", 
        "RDA only said that is why people stay in their weight class and physically a smaller guy cannot take the punishment from the heavier weight classes.", 
        "RDA talked shit *after* pulling out of the fight. I think that was part of the issue.", 
        "still would've lost to RDA", 
        "Prove it", 
        "RDA beat Diaz and Diaz beat MCGreggor  \n\nMMAth does it again! /s\n\nSeriously though, I think Conor matches up better against RDA than Diaz. so for me the jury is still out. McGreggor vs Edgar is the fight I would like to see anyway.", 
        "Yeh that irritated me. Conor stepped up to save the card he pulled out of and he has the nerve to mock him for it. Twerp ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He could have snapped his leg in half it wouldnt change the point.", 
        "Gotta keep hype up for that potential fight.", 
        "That's a bullshit reason though.  After losing, you can't go around calling people pussies and acting disrespectful and then just go, \"I'm just selling the fight\".", 
        "He's also laying off Frankie Edgar, which he's been doing for basically his whole time in the UFC. Maybe he knows Frankie is a threat? Maybe he just loves Frankie and can't bring himself to shit talk him?", 
        "Frankie is one of my favorite fighters of all time, but he's not the money fight for Conor. That is why he is not being called out.", 
        "I think he is laying off Frankie because he is focusing on talking shit to the big money opponents. Although many of us would love to see Frankie get his shot, fights with Aldo, RDA, Diaz etc. are probably more worthwhile in his eyes. ", 
        "Frankie never signed a fight with him and pulled out within the last 2 weeks and then proceed to talk on twitter is the reason I guess.", 
        "The first thing he mentioned during the first pre fight presser with Nate was that Frankie is a pussy and a big shiner for not accepting the fight.", 
        "He did not call Frankie a pussy. He didn't even curse in that interview, he was being respectful in that instance.", 
        "Maybe he didn't call him a pussy but he was complaining about Frankie whining and not taking the fight ", 
        "I think he's said before he really respects Edgar's skills. He has nothing to say to Edgar cause he knows he's a bad mother fucker that shows up to fight any time", 
        "Except for Saturday", 
        "why downvote? its true.", 
        "11 days notice. torn groin. gee, i wonder why he didn't just jump in there.", 
        "doesnt mean he didnt accept the fight though.", 
        "1. He kinda respects Frankie. \n\n2. Frankie didn't sign to a fight and then pull out to talk shit on twitter.", 
        "RDA BROKE HIS FUCKING FOOT!! People need to stop talking like he had a fucking choice. And his shit talk is a lot less shit than Aldo. Aldo actually sounds like actually hates McGregor.", 
        "I get it. He couldn't fight, but it's lame to pull out and rip on the guy that actually showed up when he loses.", 
        "He wasn't shitting on him like Aldo was and he's trying to keep some hype alive. RDA isn't stupid, he knows McGregor would do great things for his exposure and his bank account", 
        "Frankie never said anything after 196.  RDA and Aldo both publicly called him out on twitter", 
        "What did RDA and Aldo say btw?", 
        "and he's clearly got HUGE respect for Frankie. Neither has shit talked each other.", 
        "Frankie called him out too.", 
        "To be fair, McGregor talked a lot of shit to both RDA and Aldo and essentially completely disrespected both of them.  I don't blame them for jabbing Conor a little bit when he loses to Nate Diaz in the 2nd round.", 
        "There's a FOX interview where Conor calls Frankie a bitch for hiding behind his manager, so he's keeping the fires stoked.", 
        "lol yea im sure that fox interview will make waves", 
        "Link?", 
        "https://twitter.com/UFCONFOX/status/706279710565670912", 
        "I mean, to be completely fair, he didn't say bitch... He didn't curse at all and was fairly respectful about it...but thank you for link!", 
        "Yeah, a poor paraphrase.", 
        "But as devils advocate it was pretty much the same thing xD", 
        "[**@UFCONFOX**](https://twitter.com/UFCONFOX/)\r\n\r\n> [2016-03-06 00:46 UTC](https://twitter.com/UFCONFOX/status/706279710565670912)\r\n\r\n> Conor McGregor to @FrankieEdgar: \"Quit whining, quit complaining...quit having your manager talk for you.\" \\#UFC196 http://snpy.tv/1p7KYtk\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\r\n\r\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\r\n", 
        "Thats basically an acknowledgement that Frankie's manager is doing all the trash talking, not Frankie. So why would McGregor need to trash talk Frankie after losing when Frankie hasnt came at him once?", 
        "Because Frankie's clearly endorsing it.\n\nIt's not like he has no choice but to let his manager tweet trash talk for him. If he didn't want to have come back at him, shouldn't be letting that stuff out there.", 
        "Write it off as business, I suppose. Didn't Frankie jump up cage-side after the Mendes fight? Not trash talk but a neat little moment. It's also an issue of representation, if I hire a dude to manage my affairs and set up fights then there's a reasonable expectation that person speaks for me. \n\nConor also has to respond, if only in an attempt to dispel appearances of ducking Frankie, probably. What the fuck do I know?", 
        "Frankie did go up to the cage.  Here is the backstage interview.\n\nhttp://www.mmamania.com/2015/7/12/8939595/ufc-frankie-edgar-wants-conor-mcgregor-title-fight-while-jose-aldo-heals-mma", 
        "UFC 209: McGregor v Diaz II would be perfect.", 
        "I cant wait that damn long haha. Put those fuckers in the ring next week.", 
        "Oh shit, I completely forgot about UFC 209. I feel like it would be a crime not to have both of the Diaz Brothers on that card. ", 
        "No matter who he fights, Diaz has got to be the main event of 209.", 
        "Omg. That'll be my UFC 200. I hope nick suspension is up by then", 
        "which Diaz though?\n", 
        "Its a tag team match of Nick and Nate against RDA and Lawler.", 
        "Nick and Nate tag team match.", 
        "I like where your head is at but I'm thinking BIGGER...\n\nLet's bust out those Jaegar's from Pacific Rim.  \n\nNick & Nate vs Conor & Micky from 'Snatch'.  Brothers vs Brothers.\n\n\n\n", 
        "Against Conor and Chael Sonnen.\n\nThe build up with all the shit talking would be incredible!", 
        "Edgar-McGregor, Holloway-Aldo, Diaz-Dos Anjos", 
        "No fucking way Diaz faces RDA again unless he puts a winstreak together. He was dominated when they fought last, and that was after he couldn't make weight.", 
        "So classless of Aldo imo. The guy that got knocked out in 13 seconds talking shit while someone is down is the pussy, especially after how respectful Conor was post fight. Same with RDA talking bullshit about how he can't move up, if Conor was at 155 and Brazillian Frankenstein didn't pull out because of his foot, it would of been a whole different story. Diaz was a badass fight and if there's a rematch I think it will be really really interesting. ", 
        "And poking and prodding Aldo and grabbing his belt is not classless?\n\nConor needs to cut to 145 to win in the UFC and Aldo will be ready to take him down, rather than lead with his chin\n\n", 
        "Fuck Aldo. He should fight Holloway to get another shot at the belt. 13 seconds! ", 
        "Aldo always leads with his chin, he'd just never face a counter striker with Mcgregors speed and power before who could take advantage of it. ", 
        ">Conor needs to cut to 145 to win in the UFC\n\nOh please. That's like saying that Domick Cruz is only the bantamweight champ because he has the longest reach of the division. Same with Jon Jones. There's more to that.", 
        "I'm not saying you are wrong, but is it really fair to compare pre-fight antics which are mostly done to sell a fight, to their post fight actions where there is usually far more sportsmanship involved? When Conor knocked out Aldo in 13 seconds, he could've shoved it down his throat and laughed in his face, instead he said he was a great champion and hero to the people of Brazil, and he probably deserved better than a 13 second showing. Then Aldo stands in the ring and starts making excuses, and on the other hand, you've got Conor manning up and owning his mistakes.", 
        "> And poking and prodding Aldo and grabbing his belt is not classless?\n\nConor was doing what he does best which is selling a fight.  No matter what victory or defeat he respects his opponents once the fight is over.  \n\n> Conor needs to cut to 145 to win in the UFC\n\nThis is literally the dumbest comment I've read this year. I want to reply to it but its not worth my time.\n", 
        "Conor needs to go back to featherweight to fight people he can have the size and reach advantage over, Diaz needs to stay at lightweight as a legit welterweight to keep his size and reach advantage over...", 
        "Well we know Conor can't win at 170", 
        "So which named 155 fighter does Conor beat?\n\n", 
        "himself", 
        "Some fellow plumber back in ireland.", 
        "Lol, it's beyond selling fights. He called a German guy a Nazi, he refuses to touch gloves. The dude is a 100% prick, and that's ok, but don't call a rose anything but. ", 
        "So basically Conor has the freedom to do whatever he wants and then use to excuse, \"just selling the fight\" to justify it?  I'm sorry, but some things are out of line, and McGregors crossed it several times.  He called Dennis Siver a Nazi.....I mean that's the most disrespectful thing you can call a German person and Siver was very offended.  You can't just say, \"Well McGregor's just trying to sell the fight.  He should be allowed to call Siver a Nazi\".  No, some things are disrespectful and cross the line.", 
        "Like Siver endangering the other life's of fighters by cheating? I like to think the Nazi remark wasn't held back because of that. There was genuine dislike and hatred for Siver, he manufacturers that with everyone else.", 
        "That's what pisses me off the most.\n\nAnything that Conner says is \"justified\" and \"selling a fight\". The guy is a fucking clown.\n\nWhen someone else responds to the glorified plumber, he gets called out.\n\nFucking double standards.", 
        "Most people in this sub are Mcgregor's fans and biased as fuck. They even went to upvote the Mcgregor v Aldo gif that was on 2nd of all time until yesterday to make sure the Diaz gif don't catch up to it.\n\nAnd now this post here will problably be praised. Omg he so humble. Fuuck off.", 
        "\"They even went to upvote the Mcgregor v Aldo gif that was on 2nd of all time until yesterday to make sure the Diaz gif don't catch up to it.\"\n\nWoooww I had no idea about that.  That's crazy and honestly a sign of mental illness from these people.  At least they can't use the \"McGregor's the best P4P fighter in the world\" bullshit that I've seen on this sub for months. ", 
        "Between this and him saying he'll open up a sweatshop to commemorate a victory over Aldo in a country where slavery was once a prominent feature of its landscape, Conor sure can say some distasteful things.\n\nThough the pain he feels from his loss is regrettable and he has an admirable degree of daring, if losing makes him stop saying things like this I'd rather he not win. ", 
        "If you're the reason I'm getting 500K in a fight, I'll get over you grabbing my belt when it helped promote the fight.  Don't talk shit after a fight you weren't involved in.", 
        ">Don't talk shit after a fight you weren't involved in.\n\nI know most of you weren't around then but that's pretty much what Conor has been doing since he signed to the UFC.\n", 
        "Immediately after the fight, it's ridiculous to go on twitter and call someone a pussy who knocked you out.  This is the main issue at hand.  And give it a rest with the bandwagon fan bullshit.  Conor lost and I'm still here giving a reasonable opinion.  I'm sure you're one of the \"I'm a better UFC fan than you\" people who claimed any fan of Conor would've been gone after last night.  As if you were never new to MMA and didn't start to love it over time just as I have.  And I'm not here for Conor, I'm here for MMA and the UFC.", 
        "When Conor acts like a cunt to sell a fight he's a genius. Anyone else does it to Conor and it's despicable. The whole buildup to their first fight Conor was acting like a disrespectful cunt and people like you, who'd seen all the funny videos on Facebook, barged in here defending him and shitting on Aldo for not doing anything to sell the fight. You can scrape the barrel for differences but ultimately you're choosing to ignore the intention behind Aldo's actions now simply because you're not riding his balls. ", 
        "I never said anything about Aldo not selling the fight.  He did his job by winning all of his fights for 10 years.  He doesn't even speak English, why would I hold it against him for not selling the fight at press conferences?  And you just claimed he didn't do anything to sell the fight before.  But now all of a sudden he's doing shit to sell a fight?", 
        "Aldo has one of the toughest cuts in the sport so does his partner Barao", 
        "He was just trying to sell the fight since Jose never seems to try. ", 
        "Some people didn't need WWE antics to want to watch the number one P4P fighter fight.", 
        "I wanna see your receipts for the last few Mighty Mouse PPVs.", 
        "We don't pay for PPVs where I'm from. But you're only outing yourself as another noob by suggesting there weren't plenty of true mma fans who were eager to see Aldo fight on the back of his WEC reign of dominance. I didn't need him to be delivering well-rehearsed insults on my Facebook feed to want to see him fight.", 
        "Yea. All of those people that wanted to see Aldo. What's the most buys he got? Like 350k? Averaged around 250k? The bottom three divisions didn't, and don't, draw for shit.\n\nBut I guess you're in the land of true fight fans, which is why there are so many huge, well known promotions there that everyone travels to see.", 
        "This is exactly what he is doing right now.", 
        "then how the fuck can you not say that Jose is trying to sell the fight now? jesus, you guys are so far up conor's ass you can't see what you're saying.", 
        "Because Aldo hasn't sold a fight in his life.  Why should we believe he's starting now?", 
        "Jose is just gloating. He isn't selling shit.", 
        "The very first thing Jose did was jump on twitter in English and Portuguese and call Conor out. How is that not selling a rematch?", 
        "It's kind of hard to sell a fight three months after. \n\nBefore you say Jose is selling a rematch, let me remind you, there is no fight booked to sell. ", 
        "Okay, so is the rule that you can say anything as long as you are booked to fight someone or were booked before they got hurt?\n\nBecause Conor literally jumped out of the ring to yell in Jose's face when they weren't booked.", 
        "Good point. I think the difference is that they had not fought yet. \n\n", 
        "Yeah, they're definitely different situations. ", 
        "Well now he's trying to sell it so he can get that title fight and get his belt back", 
        "Because there is no fight booked?", 
        "He is not selling the fight, he's begging for a payday.", 
        "Calling someone a pussy after you lost to them because you're butt hurt isn't selling fight. Starting drama at a pre-fight press conference is selling a fight.\n\nWhere was Aldo when he got the call offering a rematch with Conor after he demanded an immediate rematch because getting immediately KO'd \"wasn't a fight\"?\n\nOh, that's right, he didn't want it after all. ", 
        "Don't even bother. Connor can talk shit all day , be disrespectful and s generally ass an people eat it up. Anyone else? they're being a pussy, being disrespectful, a sore loser. \n\nPeople don't even see their huge Connor bias.", 
        "Difference was Aldo had not lost yet, he was the champion, and that was hype. This is Aldo realizing that Edgar is going to get the shot so he's just kicking Conor whiles he's down trying to piss him off to get the shot.", 
        "Sounds like the real difference is McMayweather says funny things in those videos on Facebook. The hypocrisy is crazy among you fanboys.", 
        "Why do you assume I'm a fanboy. I like Conor, but I'm a Jones Rockhold guy who said I enjoyed the fight.", 
        "OK, then how about talking shit about the champion while he's down with a broken foot? Calling it a bruise is ridiculous and low, because so many people just believe what he says.", 
        "If your fight got canceled that could of made you a two time belt holder, you would be upset too.", 
        "I don't think he actually believes it's anything but a broken foot. It's more entertaining for him to say he needs an ice pack and ibuprofen. ", 
        "Just like it's entertaining for Jose to call him out...that's the point I was making.", 
        "I guess. But nobody in the chain js saying it's not entertaining. They said it doesn't seem classy. ", 
        "...and calling a hispanic person from the ghetto a Cholo and a Fajita and saying you can buy them 10 times over is classy?", 
        "Solid strawman there champ. When did I say it was classy? I am simply expanding on what /u/CloselyNA said. It's not one extreme or the either, both can say dumb shit. Just like you're saying dumb shit now.\n", 
        "Seriously, I can't believe the mental gymanstics these McG nuthuggers go to justify McG is nothing other than a 'gracious' golden saint, what a bunch of chuckleheads.", 
        "And when did I say anything other than, \"They (referring to people earlier in the chain) said it doesn't seem classy. \" That's their opinion. How do you draw \"McGregor is nothing but a gracious golden saint\" from that?\n\nIf both of us were movie directors and I said your movies are shit. Mine don't have to be good/bad for that statement to be incorrect/correct. So McGregor doesn't have to be 'classy' for Aldo to be 'unclassy' and vice versa. ", 
        "he wasn't 'down' at all, he just nearly ruined a highly anticipated event and got to preserve his record.", 
        "If that's what you call getting a dangerous injury, go ahead. You don't mock someone with a serious injury.", 
        "Aldo also needs to cut down to 145. Its a tough cut for both of them.", 
        "Yep, neither looked great tbh: http://i.telegraph.co.uk/multimedia/archive/03524/84488909_UFC_presi_3524720b.jpg", 
        "Dem cheekbones tho", 
        "Have McGregor fight and beat Frankie at 145, have Aldo v. McGregor 2 at 155. Winner fights RDA. I can dream. ", 
        "Dana looked good though", 
        "They look... stringy.\n\nAlso, seeing the very distinct outlines of Connor's skull is both cool and disgusting.", 
        "they both look like they just escaped from a holocaust camp to be honest.", 
        "Well I'm glad you're honest ", 
        "That...would be a great movie starring Conor. He gets into some trouble back home in Ireland and flees from the country. Then he joins the French Foreign Legion and defends the country against Germany in 1940, gets taken prisoner and ends up in some shitty camp. He can't be freed or exchanged because although Ireland is neutral he's a wanted man back home in Dublin and can never return there.\n\nSo when his camp finally gets freed in 1945, having lost everything he starts fighting in underground fight clubs throughout post-war Europe until he becomes the greatest fighter in the world, makes a few millions, gets the girl, retires and finally is allowed back home to Dublin where he settles down and trains kids how to become the greatest fighters in the world.", 
        "If that's what the camp turns your abs into then sign me up.", 
        "I don't think I've ever seen any Jew with those kind of abs...besides the Hebrew Hammer ", 
        "Conor completely disrespected RDA a lot in the lead up to the fight.  He even made fun of his children, which is crossing the line IMO. I kind of don't blame him for jabbing Conor a little bit after losing to Nate Diaz.  I'm sure if the roles were reversed, people would find Conor insulting RDA hilarious.  It's just a crazy double standard.", 
        "there's a difference between hyping a fight and kicking a guy down. Right after a fight McGregor is always respectful and humble.", 
        "Yeah, McGregor isn't making any excuses for the fight and I respect him for that.  I'm a Conor fan because I'm a fight fan, and Conor's a great striker.  But styles make fights and I knew we shouldn't get ahead of ourselves by putting him in the top 5 P4P when he's faced 1 grappler in his entire UFC career. ", 
        "So are you saying that everyone needs to skip to the beat of Conor's drum? Other fighters can only talk shit to Conor if he starts it? Seems like a double standard.", 
        "What you guys want Aldo to say? \n\n\"He's better than me and sorry for your loss at 170?\"\n\nHe wants his fight guys. And he wants  with a full camp. Aldo doesn't like to take risks, that's one of the reasons why he stayed undefeated for so long.  Personally I'd rather see Frankie getting the title shot but I see Aldo's side for sure.\n\nDo you guys think that Conor will be polite and respectful when he tries to get Nate Diaz rematch? You wait and see. Last night he was already talking about weitgh and \"efficient energy\". Even Aldo took well his loss to an certain degree. \n\nBut it's a whole other thing when you have to start selling the next fight (or campaigning for it to happen).", 
        ">What you guys want Aldo to say?\n\n\nAbsolutely fucking nothing. I would still be ashamed to speak if I was Aldo, he got handled like a schoolboy in his fight. Shit was so embarrassing and this is just making things worse. ", 
        "> What you guys want Aldo to say?\n> \"He's better than me and sorry for your loss at 170?\"\n\n\"Time for the rematch. This time I'll make you tap just like Diaz did.\"\n\nThere's literally dozens of legitimately challenging things he could say without coming off like a little bitch. No idea why you're pretending it's difficult.", 
        "For a fight he wasn't involved in, nothing.", 
        "Here's the deal. If you want an MMA fighter to shut up about MMA fights on the internet, you as an MMA fan should go ahead and STFU first. How's that?", 
        "YOU STFU FIRST", 
        "Conor talked shit to Werdum, which also has nothing to do with him, but HEY it's cool when he talks!\n\nBetter not be Aldo though", 
        "Conor better not to be in the same soom as Werdum. Werdum would wreck him sideways.\n\n", 
        "Conor talks shit even about TJ dillashaw changing gyms which has nothing even close to do with him but HEY it's cool when he talks!\n\nDon't get me wrong, I don't like a lot of things that Aldo is doing lately like for instance just wanting to fight for the belt only. But to say Aldo talking trash to Mcgregor is bad on his character is just nonsense.\n\nFor all we know, it may not even be him that is making the decision of targeting Conor, it could well be his managers that think the money fight is better. In a lot of interviews he says that it's not all about Mcgregor and that he would like to face Edgar for the belt if Conor would vacate it.", 
        "> Conor talks shit even about TJ dillashaw changing gyms which has nothing even close to do with him but HEY it's cool when he talks!\n> \n\nHe had a tv show to promote.", 
        "Aldo has a fight to promote. But that's ok buddy, believe in your hero.", 
        "Aldo isn't fighting conor,  he's just salty about being embarrassed ", 
        "The tj thing he brought up on tuf while opposing Faber and Faber brought him in to coach. I mean it wasn't completely out of bounds was it?", 
        "Dude, he was on TUF coaching against Faber and Alpha Male.  TJ was fucking right there, why can't he say something?  You think if he wasn't on TUF he'd've gone on twitter and gave his opinion on god damn TJ Dillashaw switching gyms?  As far as Aldo goes, talking shit to a guy who knocked you out after he loses a fight to someone else is a HORRIBLE LOOK.  Idc who you are.", 
        "So talking shit about the other coach's boy is ok but talking shit about your most likely next opponent is not.\n\nI guess Faber felt really great with Conor shit talking him that much when he was already getting stabbed in the back by TJ. \n\nYou can think Aldo is a pussy by beating a man after he lost but it's not different from a lot of other things that Conor do, but when he does it, *it's just his persona to sell tickets, he's acctually a good and humble guy.*", 
        "Why are you spacing your comments like that?  Conor was pointing out to Faber something he didn't seem to notice.  And he turned out to be right, they seem to be friends now as well.  If you had a friend stabbing you in the back, wouldn't you want someone to be real with you about the situation?", 
        "Dude, you even said it. \n\n>  after how respectful Conor was post fight\n\nthis isn't post fight anymore, and I'm 100% this is Aldo giving his best for it to become a confirmed pre-fight.", 
        "No, this is Aldo being an asshole after McGregor's fight, and you said it yourself, he's just being salty because Edgar is most likely going to get the shot", 
        "Salty lol \n\nDude, It's obviously Aldo attempting to hype his rivalrie enough for him to get the rematch before a Frankie fight. The \"Aldo is beeing an ass\" and McGregor redemption story is the best story for this fight, and his only shot of getting the fight instead of Frankie. After this they'll both be respectful about it and move on.", 
        "Well he picked a shitty time to do it. Just makes him out to look like a salty dickhead.", 
        "He picked the best time to do it, cause now people are wishing to see McGregor kick his ass. \nWho's the one hyped by the crowd does not matter when all you want is the fight.", 
        "can we just stop pretending to know what either of their intentions actually are?", 
        "The idea that this isn't a manager and It's Aldo's sincere opinion about someone he probably never had an intimate interaction is ridiculous. This isn't \"oh this is probably what it is\", It's just straight up marketing", 
        "Then you are not arguing with the point that it's classless, just that it's regular pre-fight build-up (like Conor does)  and not even what Aldo really thinks. We can all agree on that.\n\nWhat do you think about RDA ? Is it just Ali being Ali ?", 
        "What I'm arguing about is literally this, but people don't really all agree on that. These are the people that will call fighters assholes and shit because of attempts to hype their fights. \n\nAre those last questions actual questions? Cause I mean, I believe RDA is a monster within his division right now. ", 
        "That's it. For a week or so Aldo was all respectful as well saying that Mcgregor got him and things like that. But he can't campaign for a fight now saying stuff like this. More so when he was koed in 13 seconds and a lot of the people watching didn't even know who he were. \n\nHe have to at least piss off some Conor fans so they want to see him losing again.", 
        "Yeah I showed aldo v mcgregor to my roommates and they said \"wow aldo's not that good. I hope diaz wino to derail the mcgregor hype train\"", 
        "I know I am in the minority here, but I didn't see McG beating RDA.\n\nAnd after last night, I think McG will have a lot of trouble with the top 5 at LW", 
        "Wasn't RDA favored in the fight before he pulled out? I don't bet so I don't actually know what the odds were", 
        "I kinda feel like I'm in that minority too. There were quite many shots that made me say, \"If that wasn't Nate but other LW guys, fight could have been over\"", 
        "oh by no means are you a minority, even most Conor fans were not fully convinced he could do it. I totally agree", 
        "So he can't move up 10 lbs and beat him, let alone the top 5? That's absolutely hilarious. So do we not think Mcg is good, or do we think RDA is undisputedly the best fighter of all-time? I get that's what we do hear, but let's not be delusional and act like we know what would happen.", 
        "It's just such a what if area. Only way to truly know is when they fight.", 
        "I think that he has a better chance against Dos Anjos than against Diaz. Fact is, Diaz is taller and has a longer reach that Conor, while RDA is smaller than Conor. And the dude got some vicious KO power, look @ Diaz' face. It's no secret that the Diaz Brothers have (one of) the best chins in the UFC.", 
        ">It's no secret that the Diaz Brothers have (one of) the best chins in the UFC.\n\nI'm not a doctor but I believe the Diaz Brothers have two chins\n", 
        "RDA can take a shot and will not hesitate to take McGregor to the ground, where he will have a massive advantage.\n\nSee the RDA-Diaz fight for how I see the fight going.", 
        "True, Conor has that left hand, but RDA got elite ground game, good wrestling, good standup. RDA's left hand is pretty good too, but I'm more worried about his left leg. Vicious leg kicks, destroyed Diaz'leg with that and made Cerrone quit with that same leg.", 
        "3 of the most important things about this fight are:                  \n\n1) Diaz Brothers chins are crazy, I think their chins remind me of Mark Hunt's chin.                \n\n2) Nate has been fighting shorter fighters his entire career for the most part. He's a lanky spider who knows how to use that to his advantage, he's been doing it for 9 years. Conor never really fights people that are that much taller with that much of a reach advantage.                    \n\n3) Conor's ground game is not strong so he can work on it, but there is no doubt that Nate is a great BJJ fighter. ", 
        "> Conor's ground game is not strong so he can work on it\n\nDoes everyone forget the bit where McGregor reversed Nate on the ground and had him balled up against the cage? I don't think his ground skills are really what he needs to change, keeping his hands up would be a better idea", 
        "Did you see how that originally went to the ground? It was pathetic, he went down with basically no force at all. The first day I went to BJJ, I managed to get out and away from a purple belt, it only happened once, and it wasn't because I had a clue, Conor is just a stronger person. He didn't even try to have any defense to stop Nate from sliding into full guard, didn't even put a knee up. With more training he would do that just based on instinct.                       \n\nI think he needs to bring in bigger fighters to train with, guys who are 6' tall. He can already dominate guys his height or shorter, but the bigger guys are new territory. ", 
        "It was kind of weird to see Conor throwing overhand lefts in this fight. He never had to haha.", 
        "May as well be trying to launch them into orbit haha. He was throwing these huge telegraphed punches to hit Nate's face, which have power but not like the punches he has used to knock out people of his height and shorter. That 4\" makes a big difference haha. Not trying to take anything from Nate but he's used to fighting short guys, and using his lanky body to poke them and keep distance. ", 
        "You are not in the minority amongst hardcore MMA fans. Especially after last night, it seems likely that RDA will run through him like a buzzsaw. \n\nMost Conor McG fans are new MMA fans who were brought in by him and they don't have enough exposure to the sport to really know what they're dealing with, as was true of us hardcores when we were new to the sport. In the beginning we all saw MMA through the lens of our favorite fighters. \n\nBut here's the news...RDA is going to take McG down and break him down with ground and pound. McG's power doesn't seem to translate favorably up even one weight class. He hits hard as fuck, but not hard enough to put a big lightweight like Nate Diaz out in one shot, the way he does at featherweight.\n\nHe will not be able to discourage RDA's takedowns with strikes or defend them with wrestling. He will not be able to buck RDA from top mount. And he will eat leather until he turns belly down and taps the canvas. ", 
        "But McG goes through hell to cut weight and get to 145. 155 seems a lot more natural for him and if he gets destroyed there then Nick Diaz's deep words about a fighting normal size people makes a lot of sense.", 
        "Your comment highlighted it perfectly. The dude could not believe how litltle his hitting truly impacted Diaz, yes, he was winning, but Diaz looked mentally fine and Connor realized this. I just don't see McG being successful at that weight.", 
        "Not gonna lie i was brought in my Mcgregor/Chris weidman but i fell in love with the sport i am pretty new but. I always thought that Mcgregor had a \"punchers chance\" and that showed when he faced Aldo but the odds of that happening were pretty low seeing how he couldent knock out Nate even though Nate has a crazy good chin not sure how good RDA chin is i would have to watch some matches.", 
        "Man, I love Chris Weidman. I genuinely had him pegged as the future of MMA, so that shows you what I know...though I still give him a pretty decent chance in the rematch. \n\nMcG has more than a puncher's chance against RDA. He's a legit elite MMA fighter with terrifying KO power and RDA has been KO'd dead before. But...that was a long time ago and I think what this weekend showed us is that McG is not so much an athletically gifted KO machine as he is a fighter who generates KOs through technique, accuracy and position. He's an expert at baiting fighters to rush forward and then catching them as they come in. When he's against a fighter with longer reach than him, he has to throw himself forward to connect and it seems to diminish his power considerably. In contrast, athletically gifted KO artists like Anthony Johnson and Chad Mendes seem to be able to put guys out with awkward shots that land with less than optimal accuracy. See Chad Mendes' KO of Ricardo Lamas. \n\nBut here's the thing: In their title match, RDA ate punches and headkicks from Pettis that would have killed a water buffalo. I don't know what changed, but he's not as easy to put out as he was back in the day. If you take the KO away, what does Conor have? His wrestling and jitz is inferior to RDAs.\n\nMcG has the reach advantage again, so there's always the possibility that he'll be able to catch RDA as he comes in as he has before...but will his power translate? RDA may be at least as tough as Diaz, whom he destroyed when they fought. And RDA's striking entries are probably the best Conor's ever faced, so there's less chance of catching him clean, even if he connects. And once RDA gets his hands on him...\n\nI still think this the fight the UFC wants to see, so we'll have to see how it pans out. ", 
        "People need to stop being so offended by what fighters say to promote fights. It's not necessary. No one in here should be butthurt over what an athlete is doing to try and make themselves more money. We all know how abysmal the pay is. Everyone is always saying how Jos\u00e9 should've done more promotion and here's the results of when he does. He doesn't want to sit behind Frankie. He's talking shit to get a rematch. ", 
        "If no one care/get offended, there will be so much less buy and pte fight hype.  It's ugly,  it's annoying but isn't it what trash talk suppose to create? ", 
        "That's what I liked and miss about GSP. Sold fights - didn't need to trash talk. I miss his class among UFC champs.", 
        "I don't think we're offended, or at least I am not. I just dont think it makes sense. Kind of like Conor's whole thing about RDA betraying his country, while he trains with Artem and Gunny. ", 
        "Most sensible comment in this thread so far.", 
        "i think you are under the impression the UFC lets fighters fight with broken bones. he was not cleared to fight. ", 
        "Dos Anjos body isn't built for combat.\n\nEdit: If his body was made for combat then why was Nate fighting last night? Yeah, thought so.   ", 
        "this is the stupidest thing I've read on here in a long time. good job sounding like a total idiot who doesn't understand the world of mma and training for mma", 
        "You make some excellent points. That's a very analytical brain you've got there. Maybe you should give your expertise to the guy who broke his foot training 11 days before the biggest fight of his career. Maybe you could put some mineral ice on his big toe, probably all you're good for. ", 
        "Connor tore his acl in a fight before, does that mean his body isnt built for combat? Yeah, thought so", 
        "And yet he still fought mendes even though he required surgry right after the fight", 
        ">Yeah, thought so.   \n\nI fucking lol'd\n", 
        "I'll be here all night, stick around :)", 
        "I bet Pettis, Cowboy and all the other guys Dos Anjos has fucked up would disagree with you.", 
        "Breaking your foot 10 days from the biggest fight of all time is simply unforgivable imo. ", 
        "biggest fight of all time..? ", 
        "WTF why? He was training. Shit happens, man.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Thanks for the diagnosis and the quality comments. Keep em coming fam. ", 
        "People like you are why this sub sucks. Why don't you create a just bleed sub, where all you guys can wax ignorantly about a sport you have almost no knowledge of. ", 
        "Tell me how you really feel", 
        "Would you step in the ring with his non combat ready body?", 
        "No, but I would step in an octagon with him.", 
        "Including Nate Diaz, who he walked through.", 
        "of course he can't fight, He broke it in training. At the same time, he is the reason the fight happened, and he really has no place talking trash.", 
        "Silva defended his belt with a rib fracture. Granted he hid it but still. ", 
        "rda wasnt cleared to fight by the UFC doctors, its that simple. ", 
        "thats fine but it has happened. You didn't read my second sentence which is weird since there are only two of them though. ", 
        "its kind of hard to hide a broken foot. ", 
        "Did you see RDA's foot? He would be permanently hobbled if he didn't get medical treatment for it. WTF was the guy supposed to do?", 
        "WTF are you arguing? The dude had a broken foot and the doctors would not clear him. Don't buy into the Conor BS. It wasn't a bruise, Conor just talks shit. He was injured and he pulled out. UFC has changed, doctors are more strict, Silva hid his injury, RDA did not. That's it.", 
        "As a Diaz fan I'll support McGregor in any fight, kudos to this man. Such a good fighter, and better person. ", 
        "A better person? The guy disrespect everyone and only flaunts of his fame and money. Get the fuck out of here and take your McGregor glasses off.\n\n209 mutha fucker!", 
        "Even Conor's smacktalk had an undertone of mutual respect.  Can't think of a nicer way to clown a guy by saying something along the lines of:\n\n\"What's not to like about this man?  He's a cholo teaching kids jiu-jitsu on Sunday mornings while making animal balloons with the other hand.\"\n\nIt's two syrupy shitbiscuits in between an admirable observation sausage patty.  Its a McGriddle... the exact opposite proportions of a shit sandwich", 
        "the little guy hits hard", 
        "> Such a good fighter, and better person.\n\nbased on what? making fun of the poor after living on government assistance? Bashing a guy for teaching children? ", 
        "give me a fucking break. Do you think conor actually feels that teaching children BJJ is a negative? It was obvious he was just trying to hype the fight. But some people are just plain retarded, I guess.", 
        "yea, we are retarded because we look at conors actions and judge him based off of them, where as you look at his actions and judge him off of your fantasies about him and you. totally. ", 
        "he never made fun of \"the poor\"", 
        "oh, I must be hearing things/hallucinating when he constantly brings up his opponents being poor, in every interview he has ever given ever. ", 
        "hahaha if you think ANYONE in the UFC is poor you need to take another look at the world, he's just making em feel shit for making less than him. ", 
        ">he's just making em feel shit for making less than him.\n\nThe true markings of a good person.", 
        "dont you realize ANYTHING you can use as fodder to hurt your opponent gives you an advantage? Ive already said McGregor acts like a massive douchebag around fights. Everything about his normal life seems like he is a normal guy, even nice", 
        "I was simply asking what you were basing him being such a great person off of and all you have given me is \"idk he just seems like he would be nice\"", 
        "oh sorry i didnt see a question i just thought you were making a sarcastic comment about how Conor's a dick.  \n\nApart from how he has behaved off-UFC these are some specific examples:  \n\n[50,000euro donation to the homeless](http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2015/10/16/9558229/ufc-news-conor-mcgregor-charity-ireland-homeless-50000-euros)  \n[Crashes big fans apartment](http://www.tmz.com/2016/03/01/conor-mcgregor-nate-diaz-ufc-196-fan-apartment-fight-video/)  \n[Warns Faber about TJ being unloyal, despite no stake involved](http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2015/10/22/9591906/ufc-news-video-conor-mcgregor-tells-urijah-faber-that-t-j-dillashaw-is-a-snake-in-the-grass)", 
        "I am positive that all of that was just trash talk and nothing more. It's mean but I doubt he really meant it. They showed each other respect at the end of the fight.", 
        "So basically he can say all of the mean shit he wants, but at the end of the day as long as he calls another few guys pussies on instagram, hes a great person?\n\n\n", 
        "that's the thing I'll never understand about Conor fans.\n\nOMG, it's just trashtalk. but as soon as somebody says something about him, OMG Aldo is such a bad person/pussy/whatever.", 
        "You guys love spinning stuff and taking things out of context. He made fun of Nate for having a low salary in the UFC. Not for being on government assistance. He made fun him for teaching children because it contrast with Nate's gangster persona. \n\nConor does not hate children, shocker, I know.", 
        "Just wondering why you would think he is such a great person when everything points to the opposite.", 
        "I don't think he is \"such a great person.\" I think he is a great fighter and an entertaining personality. He also doesn't take shittalking as seriously as everyone this sub does. I have no idea what he is really like. He's pretty nice to fans. Has a good relationship with his long time gf. His family seems nice. I don't know, he definitely isn't the scumbag this sub believes he is.", 
        "you need to learn what selling a fight is...", 
        "ah, so youre still a good person as long as when youre being a bad person, it is for profit. got it.", 
        "Don't forget calling Siver a nazi, saying pretty awful things about immigrants in lead up to RDA fight, etc.  He seems like a great teammate, but gives people plenty of reason not to like him.", 
        "McGregor is not a bad person but there is no doubt he crosses the line sometimes.", 
        "He's a habitual line-stepper. ", 
        "I wouldnt say hes a \"bad person\" either but to pretend he is a better person than he is a fighter only works if youre trying to bash his fighting skills.", 
        "I never really base a fighters personality on how they act in the build-up to the fight, its how they act after it that shows the true colours", 
        "Disregarding 50+% of what someone says. That checks out.", 
        "So then youre taking into consideration things like him making a bunch of excuses in the post fight? And things like calling aldo out for shit talking on twitter, from his instagram? While talking shit to multiple other fighters, on instagram? What about punching nate at the weigh ins? or does that count as pre fight hype since its conor? \n\n\nOr are you just taking in to consideration the \"big brother whooped his little brothers ass and feels bad\" hug at the end of the fight and saying \"good on conor for being such a good sport!\"", 
        "Im talking nearly any fighter ever in any sport. They all act differently after the fight than they did before the fight. Its business, its nothing personal. Spectators get way too caught up on things fighters say during *promotion* and always ignore anything that gets said once promotion is over. McGregor saying he was inefficient isnt making an excuse, he is literally saying he wasnt good enough. If he said 'I was inefficient because i didnt get the gloves i wanted before the fight', *thats* an excuse. People often look for the smallest things to hate on him for.", 
        "So then to answer my question (which you didnt), youre not taking those things into consideration because its conor. lol. got it.", 
        "Taking what into consideration? What even was your question?", 
        "Considering I made a pretty standard attempt at a question in english complete with a question mark, that you responded to with an entire paragraph, but still dont know what the question was, Im going to end this conversation. Have a nice afternoon. ", 
        "I made quite a few comments on this thread and cant remember exactly which comment i replied to in this scenario, and considering there are 900+ comments i really dont feel like going digging which i why i asked you to repeat it. I cant force anyone to do anything they dont want to do so if repeating a question is too much for you then by all means dont trouble yourself.", 
        "you literally read my comment, clicked on it, and forgot what i said while you were replying? but continued to argue through four or five more responses despite not knowing what you were arguing about? lol ok. Again, have a nice afternoon.", 
        "I have always been a fan of both, they are amazing, inspirational and enormously talented men. This fight didn't change my opinion of either. If anything I think higher of both.", 
        "I lost a lot of respect for McGregor in the build-up. He went from being love-ably cocky to being a flat-out dickhead, and i think it all stemmed from that one steroid comment Nate made. Now that the fights over and McGregor has been humbled i can go back to loving him, tho as an Irishman this one definitely stings a bit. Its never good seeing your homegrown athletes humiliated.", 
        "Ah here, he wasn't humiliated at all. He took a fight at 170 with nothing on the line and went in with a super high risk strategy. Nate caught him with cuteness and they embraced after the fight. Sure that's entertainment lad!", 
        "Lets be honest, he got stopped in the 2nd round by a guy he was heavily favoured to beat on 11 days notice, its pretty humiliating", 
        "Post of the thread ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "you gettin bodied by a stylish irish", 
        "Seems like every fighter has turned to Twitter fingers after last night.", 
        "And every fan", 
        "Still going on about how much Money he is worth. ", 
        "Floyd Mayweather is the same, if not worse and he's the baddest boxer out there.", 
        "> and he's the baddest boxer out there\n\nThat's the difference. It's a little weird to lose and tell everyone you're humble, but oh yeah I've still got a shit ton more money than you", 
        "I suppose you have a point sir.", 
        "floyd never lost, especially not to a gatekeeper like Diaz\n\nand floyd went up and down weightclasses like a mother ", 
        "floyd never had the attitude of ill fight anyone anywhere, mother fucker dodged Manny Paq until he was past his prime, and Boxing isnt MMA records arent comparable", 
        "Yeah you're right boxing is much more lucrative", 
        "I think that he is in a different game than everyone else in the UFC. Because of his ability to hype a fight, he has done his job before the fight starts, He walks away with 5+ million win or lose. No one wants to lose but last night he still made more money than mighty mouse will make in his entire career. Maybe twice as much. \nAll of this any man at any weightclass stuff is great, but the reason he wouldn't cancel the fight after dos anjos pulled out is because he gets paid win or lose. For whatever he got paid I bet mighty mouse would take a fight against jones. ", 
        "10 years from now he's head of security at a 2nd tier nightclub in Dublin.  You can tell he has no idea what money is.", 
        "Money McGregor", 
        "seriously this sub is jerking him off so hard OH MAN I HOPE CONOR CAN COME BACK FROM THIS TRAGEDY like someone car bombed his mom and dad", 
        "I haven't seen/heard any of that. I've heard people say that they're happy to see that cocky guy get what he deserved, and I've seen people say that they like the way he handled the loss. I feel a bit of both, myself. But yeah, if anyone is saying this is a tragedy isn't all there.", 
        "No one said that. Quit imagining things.", 
        "/u/hype0000 used Exaggeration! /u/FilipinooFlash became confused.", 
        "two users = this sub\n\nLike common, there is a little bit of everything in this sub right now, and that's what makes it fun.", 
        "wat", 
        "What does that even mean?", 
        "Car bombs are commonly associated with the terrorist actions of the IRA (Irish Republican Army) during their fight for independence from Britain.", 
        "No knows what it means. But its provocative. It gets the people going.", 
        "BUT HE'S SUCH AN INSPIRATION ", 
        "Yeah, seems like he hasn't fully been humbled yet.", 
        "The trait I respect most in fighters is humility and respect for others, which makes Connor one of my least favorite fighters. I recognize that he has some skill but unlike his claims of God like skills, last night proved otherwise\n\n\"A champion should be able to go up and down in class, regardless of weight, I'll be fighting Robbie next for that belt too\"", 
        "My favorite part is: \n\n\"I'm not making any excuses......I lost to a heavier guy, I went up TWO WEIGHT CLASSES\"", 
        "He fought a LW at 170, not really moving up two weight classes. WW is murder's row of fighters that would destroy McFrodo who's made a career out beating smaller men. Nate is the first fighter Conor faced that was bigger than him and he looked very average. Nate gave him a taste of his own medicine.\nConor's had a reality check. He can go back to unhealthy weight cuts and knocking out FW's or move up to LW where his lone weapon isn't the touch of death it is in FW. Aldo, Edgar and Mendes deserve a shot at him. If he finally cleans out FW he should move up to LW were he won't be any where near as dominant.\n", 
        "That's what makes him annoying as fuck. Each time he talks about how much money he earns makes him look like mentally the poorest guy out there. Nobody cares about your crocodile shoes, who needs that kind of shit?! Fighting for the sake of fighting, for the sake of achieving something is great, and I approve that part of him, but having lots of money is not what makes him a great fighter.", 
        "You don't know where he came from. That much money would make you and I both huge assholes. Dudes doing a good job respectively", 
        "Nah, that's bullshit, and more of a reflection on the kind of person *you* are than anyone else. I know people who went from having nothing to flying around on one of their three private jets. Several of them are chill as fuck, one still rides around in his fucking 92 Ford F150.", 
        "? I'm a decent person now. Not materialistic at all. But becoming an asshole is wayyyyy more common than being humble. Especially in media", 
        "People care about the crocodile shoes, that kind behaviour is the cherry on top of everything else, it draws extra eye balls and it's just his style at the end of the day he doesn't care what you think he is just being himself ", 
        "He made this long ass Instagram post defending himself, so he obviously kind of cares about what the people think.", 
        "I don't think he's defending anything, he's a huge superstar and lost for first time since the hype started, pretty sure he's going to make an instagram post with his feelings on it and the aftermath. But agree to disagree, let's see if he cares and stops talking trash and talking about money", 
        "It's like you guys have no idea how the world works.\n\nPeople eat this shit up, he's basically pulling a modern Ric Flair schtick.\n\n>Nobody cares about your crocodile shoes, who needs that kind of shit?!\n\nEverybody likes the shit he says, thats why he's selling a million PPVs while Aldo (\"fighting for the sake of fighting\") was doing under 200k.\n\nI really wish you would be able to separate how *you* feel from what everyone else feels, but you seem *really* out of touch.", 
        "He's going to spend it all and lose it. ", 
        "Don't go hating on reptile shoes. My alligator boots are awesome.", 
        "Eh. When you come from a life of very little money and come into a lifestyle of significantly more money than most people see in their life in a short amount of time, it's hard to not be excited about it. So much of his exuberance about money is pride in his ability in the cage and on the mic and from the \"holy shit, I can barely believe I actually have this sort of stuff\" excited disbelief. And it's very easy to splurge on it and let the money define you. For his sake I hope he doesn't end up broke like a lot of NFL athletes and lottery winners.", 
        "He's taking a page out of Money Mayweather's book -- and it's working.", 
        "He's trying very hard to be the Mayweather of MMA. ", 
        "I thought he was referring to how much he's making money for the UFC and how big of an audience he draws. Sorta saying how people want to see him. ", 
        "\"Take a nap\" ", 
        "Brilliant retort, schooled him there chap.", 
        "He sees himself as more of an entertainer than a fighter I'm guessing", 
        "He should dance for us.", 
        "He would if he thought it would put an extra million in his pocket. Conor is a better business man than fighter - and he's a stellar fighter. ", 
        "I'd dance for an extra million. I'm fairly sure most people would.. ", 
        "Is he a stellar dancer though? Only one way to find out. Make him dance for us. Like an entertainer.", 
        "One of the fastest tappers in the business.", 
        "World class tap dancing, Joe.", 
        "I'll be eagerly awaiting for Conor's next tap dance.", 
        "...This year on 'Dancing With the Stars.'", 
        "I would bet money he does that ", 
        "Yeah and he's got fans that'll listen to whatever he says, but I'm a fight fan, not a gold watch & Rolls Royce fan.  I love his attitude and what he's up to, but the money talk gets so boring to me.", 
        "Stuff like that always reminds of the [Donald Trump roast where the Jersey Shore guy mad himself look like an idiot talking about how much money he has](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4gfhM4_ogwo) etc when his money is pocket change for bragging rights especially compared to well...Donald Trump.", 
        "Still unstumped", 
        "He is trying to follow in the footsteps of Floyd 'money' Mayweather.  It's a persona that works and definitely has got Floyd paid well.", 
        "Except he's 1000x more likeable than Floyd.", 
        "Come on now. Are you going to compare Conor and Floyd?\n\nI'm not a big fan of Mayweather, but bragging about frivolous stuff shouldn't really be an issue when you are the undefeated, p4p best fighter. ", 
        "I said trying ", 
        "Yeah...good point. Sorry", 
        "Forming Golden Boy did Mayweather well. ", 
        "This is awesome. Look forward to seeing Conor fight again. ", 
        "\"goes up two weights\"\n\nNot like you fought Lawler, Wonderboy or Rory?\n\nYou fought a 155er who had less than two weeks to prepare?!?\n", 
        "Doesnt matter, its him well out of his element. He's used to fighting 25 lbs lighter, thats a massive differenece. I wrestled and coming in 10lbs heavier was day and night difference in how I felt.", 
        "Cardio was an issue in this fight though. Putting on muscle and eating steak while going up to fight 2 weight classes in such a short time will impair your cardio. When he talks about that, it's not just about the size and body of Nate but also of himself. His cut to FW before was from around 160-165 max.\n\nNate meanwhile was training for a triathlon and is known for crazy cardio anyway, so you can bet there was a difference in that aspect.", 
        "God, thank you. Feels like most of the comments here are just people who watched this fight and some YouTube clips. Then feel like they know what they're talking about.\n\nConner can easily go the full 5 rounds at 145-155. He shot up to 168, in a week. Come on. There is no way you're gaining that much muscle and weight doing the cardio you're supposed to be doing. He got tired against someone who was way more comfortable at that weight. \n", 
        "So he put on 3lbs to 168? ", 
        "7 or so more likely. Just look at the size difference between now and the Aldo fight. He literally tried to pump himself up as much as possible to make size differences as small as possible.", 
        "This is bullshit. \n\nConor's body had months to get ready for LW which should have always been the division he fought in. He just didn't cut weight for this fight. Are you saying if he fought Dos Anjos and cut to 155, he would have had better cardio? No. He would have came in on fight night weighing the same as he did last night. Conor's cardio just has been overrated. He faded against Mendes too. He says he can go \"all day\" but at this point I doubt that.", 
        "> Cardio was an issue in this fight though. Putting on muscle and eating steak while going up to fight 2 weight classes in such a short time will impair your cardio.\n\nWhat you said is technically true, but it's still wildly misleading and had zero impact on the fight. It's not like he was madly stacking on weight at the last minute to try and match an opponent in a higher weight class. \n\nHe was already fighting RDA at LW, which means his whole camp was based around the higher weight class. He was *intentionally* stacking on weight to be competitive at 155 lbs. He was already walking around at 168lbs, so changing to 170lbs 2 weeks out makes zero difference. All it means is that he doesn't need to cut weight.\n\nEven then, I think he was simply dusted and dazed - I don't even think his cardio suffered or that he gassed at all. But even if he did, that's something he failed to address in jumping up to fight at 155lbs. It's got nothing to do with the last minute opponent change.", 
        "Stop...just stop with that.", 
        "Excuses.  That's what I'm seeing from your post.", 
        "There are no excuses, just explanations.", 
        "No you're coming up with excuses.  The reason why McGregor lost is because he's not as good of a fighter as Diaz.  End of story.  It's not because McGregor was going up to 170.  It's because he's not as good as Diaz.", 
        ">No you're coming up with excuses.\n\nLol. How is saying that Diaz had better cardio an excuse? Cardio is an aspect of fighting, just like strength is. The advantage on this aspect went to Diaz, clearly.\n\n>The reason why McGregor lost is because he's not as good of a fighter as Diaz.\n\nSo if Mighty Mouse loses to Chad Mendes, will you think it's simply because the latter is a better fighter?\n\nDidn't think so. \n\nNothing against Nate, he's great. But Conor lost because he can't put away a fighter of that size nearly as easily as he's used to, and because he gassed very early. If you looked at the fight, he dominated the early round and even some of the second round until he slowed down and got clipped clean on the chin far harder than any Featherweight has hit him. \n\nThis was about size, power and cardio.", 
        "\"So if Mighty Mouse loses to Chad Mendes, will you think it's simply because the latter is a better fighter?\" \n\nThis is a horrificly terrible comparison.  I don't even know where to begin with that one other than saying that Mendes and Diaz have polar opposite styles and the difference in weight between MM and Mendes is much larger than the difference in weight between Conor and Diaz.  \n\n\"But Conor lost because he can't put away a fighter of that size nearly as easily as he's used to, and because he gassed very early.\"\n\nThat's completely McGregors fault, he had a full training camp to prepare for a fight, and actually didn't even have to cut much weight which would have helped his cardio, and he still got rocked with punches and submitted.  \n\n\"This was about size, power and cardio.\"\n\nThe difference in size is about 10 pounds.  Yes Diaz is taller, but fights don't go down based on heightclasses, lol.  McGregor is a gigantic 145er, and Diaz is a pretty big 155er.\n\nThe reason why I'm responding to you is because it sounds like you're saying Conor would have normally won the fight when all the evidence points the other way.", 
        "No it isn't a bad comparison. The height difference between Mighty Mouse and Chad Mendes is the exact same as Diaz and McGregor. The reach difference is EXACTLY the same as well. Weight difference would be very similar aswell. MM has fought at Bantamweight before, and Diaz has fought at WW and is a natural WW sized fighter. (Only reason he doesn't fight there is because his brother fights there)\n\nThis fight was about the same as the Miesha/Holm fight. Miesha being Diaz and Conor being Holm, that's what I will say. Conor isn't a \"gigantic\" 145:er. He's a big 145:er. \n\nMost of Conor's opponents had a smaller size difference than Conor and Diaz had, Holloway is bigger than McGregor, Poirier is the same. Aldo is the same as McGregor in terms of weight. Conor would be a below average sized 155:er.\n\nNah I'm simply saying that Conor is a much more skilled striker than Diaz, he lost due to size+power and cardio differences, along with Diaz being a much more skilled ground fighter.\n\n>That's completely McGregors fault\n\nNever argued with that.\n\n>actually didn't even have to cut much weight which would have helped his cardio\n\nWell he didn't have to cut any weight at all, he weighed in with a belly full of steak. Doesn't change the fact that he's walking around heavier and has been trying to rapidly gain mass for the Dos Anjos fight.\n\n>and he still got rocked with punches and submitted.\n\nIt was pretty much one punch that did it.", 
        "Wow, that's a new level of excuses. The guy with no camp had the cardio advantage....come on, crawl out of Conor's ass, it's okay.", 
        "Ehm, do you know what a triathlon is? Look it up and perhaps you will understand why cardio is a factor. Nate himself said it, so you can go argue with him.", 
        "Do you think that fight cardio and triathalon cardio are the same? Conor had been training for the fight longer than Nate had been training for something that is not a fight. \n\nThrowing punches and kicks and wrestling is much anaerobic than running, biking and swimming, which are aerobic.\n\nHe was not in Mendes shape, but he was not in fight shape. ", 
        "Punches and kicks (especially Diaz punches) are NOT anaerobic. Wrestling on the other hand, sure. Very little wrestling going on in this fight though.", 
        "I mean, you're disagreeing with all established science by saying that boxing is not anaerobic. \n\nYour MO is pretty clear here.\n\nMaybe you're confused because you can create an effective aerobic workout with punches and kicks. ", 
        "Says you? Dude, you're saying swimming is an aerobic exercise. If you think swimming is an aerobic exercise, why would Boxing be anaerobic? In reality they're some of both, and Diaz' style of flurrying punches rather than constant heavy power punching makes it more aerobic than not.", 
        "Swimming for a triathlon is certainly aerobic! You're aware that a triathlon is a true endurance event, right? Not like how some people call a 5-round fight an endurance event, an actual one.\n\nYou're just saying shit. In reality, flurries of punches are considered to be one of the most anaerobic parts of boxing. It's the long bouts of jabs, moving, and quick dodging that are aerobic.\n\nEducate yourself if you wish, this is freely available information.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "If you listened to embedded videos, Conor talks about how great the extra weight is -- how he can go all day in the gym without getting tired.  Of course, I have no idea what his true thoughts were and what was just bravado, but with his comments about being gassed after the fight, it is almost like he didn't understand the difference between strength and endurance.  And yet, that seems like a weird oversight for a professional athlete. So, what do I know?", 
        "He even said i can go all day at the start of the second round. I'm not sure what time it was exactly in Vegas as i was watching the fight in Australia but perhaps the day ended at around 4 minutes into the second round. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "That's a good point -- if Conor has never been hit like that before to the body -- that would make a big difference.", 
        "Tbh a lot of people don't seem to understand that difference. See the DC / Jon Jones argument about whether or not the extra muscle mass is going to hurt the latter's movement and cardio or not.\n\nShould you be like Sage Northcutt, Anderson Silva or someone else for optimal performance? People still disagree with each other on this.", 
        "Spoilers: it depends on the fighter, but that answer doesn't let armchair MMA analysts tell fighters how to train ", 
        "There is no argument. More muscle requires more oxygen. But no LW or below fighter should gas inside 2 rounds. The human body can very adequately sustain that amount of muscle if you're in shape and Conor had a full camp. ", 
        "Where I first really became aware of it was strongest man competitions -- the ones with all those Scandinavian guys flipping tractor tires and the like. The biggest guys usually didn't win because they would get gassed.", 
        "He actually was going up 1 weightclass, since he was preparing for months for a 155 pound fight.  And not only that, but Diaz was going in there on 2 weeks notice.  Seems like I'm hearing some excuses from Conor.", 
        "apparently Nate weighed 182 lbs the day of the fight", 
        "Yeah, I mean I really doubt someone who weighs 169 would have trouble cutting to 160-165 on 10 days notice. I've \"lost\" that weight just fasting for a day or two and drinking nothing but water. ", 
        "I think its more about the other stuff he has to do in those days. He has so few days and has to do media, so spending two days weight cutting rather than sharpening up could make a difference. ", 
        "lol...no.", 
        "Where the hell did you hear that?", 
        "Source?", 
        "Nate didn't cut any weight. Neither did according to Joe Rogan. ", 
        "Source? Because the ONLY place I've heard that is random Chael Sonnen speculation.", 
        "Fat boy off the beach in Cabo", 
        "Riding bikes with the elderly - McGregor ", 
        "Yea he really only went up 1 weight. Nate is for all intents and purposes a lightweight at this stage", 
        "I'd say Conor is a natural lightweight, but Nate is actually much closer to a natural welterweight. Him and Nick are [basically the same size](http://i.imgur.com/Gm6eTSE.png), but have probably decided amongst themselves to primarily fight in different weight classes, for obvious reasons. \n", 
        "A large LW, and someone who has competed plenty at 170.", 
        "For all intents and purposes, he really isn't even going up one weight. He should be fighting at lightweight, anyway. The dude looks like a Holocaust victim when he weighs in for featherweight.", 
        "He's a lightweight but it's kind of bothersome that people seem to think it was effectively a lightweight bout. There is a difference between fighting at 170 and 155, even if you're opponent is a lightweight fighter. Nate does have to cut a lot of weight to make 155.", 
        "He cuts the same as Conor does to get to 145.  With no cuts going on Nate is the bigger guy.", 
        "It's all conjecture, but as long as we're conjecturing I think this bout, full camp, at 155 would have gone about the same.  If it ever happens, we'll see how much Conor has evolved - it might be a different bout.", 
        "McG has to cut a lot of weight (looks way worse than Nate) to get to 145. So at the end of it all, one fights at 145 and one fights at 155 and McG moved up 1 weight class.", 
        "It's the same as conor fighting frankie or Chad at 155 rather than 145. They can both fight at 145 but conor would have a massive advantage at 155", 
        "Not really. Look at him vs Michael Johnson vs. this fight. He actually looked bigger in the MJ one at 155 two months ago. That's because his weight in this fight was not muscle like Conor.", 
        "Nate was 163 in the ring against johnson", 
        "Cause the weight cut for that fight was more significant. Diaz actually had to cut to 155 for that fight. Fighters can gain up to 5-20 lbs after rehydrating. ", 
        "Ok, and he was 182 against Conor according to Gilbert Melendez which is exactly my point. It's different fighting at 155 and 170.", 
        "Nope. Nate was 170-171 last week. Cut no weight for this fight", 
        "Gilbert literally said on sportscenter that he had dinner with Nate on Friday night and Nate was around 182. Are you seriously going to try and argue this?", 
        "No he didn't. Once again Nate didn't cut any weight for this fight. Believe what u want", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Cause I know whatsup. I know exactly how much Nate weighed 1 week ago. He didn't gain no 12 pounds in 1week", 
        "You don't understand how cutting works. It's almost all water weight, they re-hydrate up to 170 the day of the fight. It wasn't a WW fight, it was just a FW fight with no weight cut. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Because you said it's bothersome that people seem to think it was effectively a featherweight fight. It was effectively a featherweight fight. When you fight at 155 you don't stay at 155. They just didn't cut water weight before the fight. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Nate Diaz is a lightweight fighter, Conor is more of a lightweight fighter than a featherweight. If you hold it at 170, all you're doing is removing the need to cut water. How are you not getting this. Explain exactly how this wasn't just a lightweight fight without cutting water.  ", 
        "Dude no one is missing what you're saying. What you're not really understanding is that since the fight was at 170, Nate cut to 170 and rehydrated up from there. He had more fat and water weight compared to him fighting at 155, which gave him the size advantage of a small welterweight.", 
        "> Nate does have to cut a lot of weight to make 155.\n\nAnd Conor was well above 155 so that he could cut down to 155.  No one fights at their walk around weight.  \n\nIt was an even fight.  I doubt either of them cut any at all.  Generally if someone cuts they stop when they hit the magic number.  Both of these dudes weighed in at under 170.  \n", 
        "I think the point is that even if it was a lightweight bout they probably would have rehydrated up to around 170ish on fight day anyway, so there was no real difference except for lack of potential dehydration.", 
        "i think one man weighing 168 and the other 182 is a real difference.", 
        "Do you know for a fact that Conor weighed in at 168 on at fight night?  According to [this](http://www.joe.ie/sport/ufc-fighter-claims-conor-mcgregor-has-gained-a-mountain-of-weight-since-weigh-ins/523215) he used to come into fights north of 170 even when fighting at 145, so him coming in at 168 on fight night seems a bit unlikely.", 
        "Yeah but since the fight was at 170 Nate rehydrated to what looks to be around 180.", 
        "Yea but Nate has to cut a lot to be 155, whilst RDA is a lot smaller and fits in that class comfortably. Conor was training for RDA, not Nate, so i feel like the size issue is a factor", 
        "You really think if Nate re-hydrated to 'around 170ish' he wouldve had trouble making 160 or even 165?? Thats the whole reason this fight happened at 170, Nate said he couldnt make those weights and McGregor let him have 170 instead of choosing someone else.", 
        "Ok yes Nate had some extra mass this fight as a result of not being in \"fight shape\" but if you look at him at the weigh ins and on fight night it sure wasn't muscle.", 
        "Im near sure Nate doesnt do any weight training, so he is never going to look like he is full of muscle", 
        "What are you talking about? Nate said he couldn't make 155, but was fine with a 164 lb catchweight.", 
        "Did McGregor not say on Conan that Nate agreed to 160 then refused it, agreed to 165 then refused that too?", 
        "According to this:\n\nhttp://mmajunkie.com/2016/03/believe-it-or-not-ufc-196-headliner-nate-diaz-appreciates-opponent-conor-mcgregor\n\nit was the UFC that disallowed 165. I could be wrong, although I wouldn't take anything Conor says at a promotional event as gospel truth.", 
        "Conor would have had the advantage there then since he would not need to cut as much. The fight would be different but not by that much.", 
        "really 15 lbs of water? ", 
        "Exactly, you understand it.", 
        "Also... does BJ Penn not exist? Pretty sure he fought Machida... I know he wasn't champ when it happened but still.", 
        "Plus he weighed in at 191 for that fight against Machida who was at I think 225", 
        "which is 10x more impressive to me. conor is amazing at weight cutting but is bigger than BJ frame wise, he has like 4 inches more reach. Nate walks around at 170, machedia walks around close to 215. ", 
        "You think Nate walks around at 170?  He wouldn't fight at 160, I'm pretty sure if you're cutting to 160, 170 isn't a bad place to be 10 days out.  Wouldn't it almost be ideal weight?", 
        "You're taking Conor's word that Nate wouldn't cut to 160, one said he refused, and the other said it's bullshit.", 
        "His \"manager\" or w/e was saying all of this on twitter.  And Ariel Helwani was reporting all of the same information as well.  Why would Conor fight at 170 instead of 160?", 
        "IDK, I'm just saying taking Conor's word over Nate about subjects that relate to Nate is kind of ignorant.", 
        "I never said I was taking Conor's word over Nate's.  What are you talking about?  I'm basing it off of what someone in Nate's camp was saying on twitter.  What Ariel Helwani reported and what Dana White claimed happened.  None of that has anything to do with Conor's word.", 
        "I think 10 days out they could be 15lbs over. 10 is probably a healthy cut, 15 is extreme, but it seems like most fighters go to the extreme. ", 
        "Yeah, that's my reasoning for doubting he walks around at 170.  They were talking like 165 was the lowest weight he could make.", 
        "My point was that he wasn't much bigger than conor compared to who BJ has fought. Diaz might have been 175 or 180 but isn't comparable to machedia ", 
        "I'm not arguing with your or saying that I disagree with your BJ Penn point.  I'm just saying Nate probably walks around at 180+, shit they're saying he was at 182 on fight night.  Nate fighting at Welterweight is like Conor fighting at lightweight.", 
        "Genki Sudo (155 lbs) fought Butterbean (425 lbs). 270 lbs difference. That's like him fighting a human centipede made of RDA, Mighty Mouse, and John Dodson.", 
        "Well in that case BJ went up 4 classes, from LW fighter to WW then did his crazy string of fights at any weight that lead to him fighting Machida as a freakin Heavyweight matchup. I doubt we will see the likes of BJ again in this modern era of MMA", 
        "It's also somewhat different for BJ as he was an accomplished ground fighter when you focus so much on striking like Conor the weight difference is exponentially more critical.", 
        "The olden days of MMA were so weird man. Awesome but weird. \n", 
        "Which is why people who say he is overrated are retards. He took on anyone at any weight, so of course he's gonna take a few losses. Lots of fighters say they'll fight anybody, BJ actually did.", 
        "I've never heard anyone say BJ was overrated. ", 
        "Stay in /r/mma long enough and you will.", 
        "Speaking truth. He may be insane now, and his website may be shit, but dammit he was fun as hell to watch.", 
        "Exactly, some of the new fans may just look at his record and say its not that impressive, but you really have to look into just exactly who he was fighting.  He didn't just go up a weight class, he went up and fought the champion in Hughes and beat him soundly.  I don't like to think that his legacy may be tarnished just from his last few losses, BJ truly was a legend and up to this point a true one of a kind fighter.", 
        ">You fought a 155er who had less than two weeks to prepare?!?\n\nWho was 5-5 in his last ten fights.\n\n\n", 
        "Which means fuck all.   He's been losing to top 5 guys while beating top 5 guys as a top 5 guy for the last 5 years.   \n\n\"You are fighting midgets. You knocked out 3 midgets and you are pumped up. I fight real grown ups all the time.\"  --Nate Diaz", 
        "Yeah, they're going to keep hammering that \"2 weight classes\" thing home as an excuse.", 
        "to be fair though did you ever see aldo, gsp, jbj, DJ move up weight classes? what you saw last night is the reason that none of them have moved up weight classes. the shots nate took would have put any fw to sleep and i'm pretty sure they would have put RDA to sleep as well.\n\ni knew conor was fucked in the first when he was landing hard shots and nate was walking through them.", 
        "I mean I kind of dislike Conor and Nate is my favorite fighter but you have to admit that 170 benefited Nate more than it did Conor.  ", 
        "Do you not see fighting someone who's 25 pounds+ heavier as a legitimate factor when it comes to fighting? I would definitely say it's a factor in the fight game.\n\nedit:  I'm arguing that it shouldn't be seen as an excuse when it's something that actually has a large impact on fighting.", 
        "The weight difference on fight night between Nate and Conor was no bigger than the weight difference between Conor and any of his opponents as featherweight. ", 
        "Sure it's a factor.  Typically McGregor has that advantage.  Now we know he relies on it.\n\nEdit : also, Nate fights at 155 and even if they went through the formality of cutting to that weight, he would have won.", 
        "So does Diaz. He's a bigger opponent in nearly all of his fights, about the same difference as McGregor. ", 
        "He's a taller and lankier. But I wouldn't say he often has a significant weight advantage. He doesn't have too much trouble making weight and has fought at lightweight his entire career, save for a short foray into welterweight. On the other hand, McGregor is of average size among 155ers. But when Nate moved up to welterweight, he was noticeably small and got big brother'd with ease in his losses against Rory and for two rounds against the Dong.", 
        "Your edit is speculation. You're *probably* correct but it's still just your guess.", 
        "But He wasn't fighting an actual WW fighter. Like Rory or Lawler who weight 190+ lbs. He was fighting a LW fighter in Nate Diaz who weighs 169lbs. Conor weighed 168lbs and neither cut weight for this fight. \n\nIf Conor fought Lawler when he got his head blasted off in the first clean punch he could complain about fighting a bigger stronger man at WW. ", 
        "Nate was not 25+ lbs heavier than Conor, it's just not true. \n\nConor has been winning by starving himself to fight smaller guys. He's naturally a LW, and he fought the #5 LW with no camp. Diaz just fought at LW a couple of months ago, he was not in WW shape at all for this fight. It's not like he beat Michael Johnson and then started bulking for WW for no reason. He was a LW that didn't get a camp.", 
        "I think he's saying Conor fought some 25+lbs heavier than anyone he's fought in the UFC so far. Regardless of Conor's weight, when you are knocking the best 145 ever out with one punch, and you got up to 170 and your opponent eats 6 or 7 good clean shots, it becomes a factor.\n\n\nMcG got his tactics wrong, and we all found out that his one punch ko power doesn't translate to WW. Chalk it up to inexperience and Diaz being a warrior anyway. I can imagine a rematch going very differently.", 
        "Junor KOed Cain in one shot. Cera KOed GSP in one shot. Neither one of them gets a pass to assume that everyone will crumble in one shot.\n\nIf you think that your fist carries the power to KO anyone in one shot then you're a lunatic.\n\nYou guys are acting like Nate is Robbie Lawler. Nate's a LW. He just fought at LW with no plans to go to WW. \n\nA rematch at LW may well go differently, especially considering Nate would get a full camp.", 
        "And mcgregor isn't a lunatic? While he was winning the first and probably the first half of the second round, he fought a terrible fight.\n\nI'm not saying Nate is the size as Lawler, I said he's massive compared to anyone Conor has fought before. ", 
        "I agree, he seems way full of himself, and he did fight a terrible fight by basically forcing himself to finish it early.\n\nI mean, did he honestly expect a fight with a LW contender at WW to go no differently than a FW fight? If so, he was the only one that did. But, seeing as he's a professional fighter, I think he knew what all of us on the couch did: that Nate Diaz would not crumble or gas like Mendes. \n\nNate's definitely bigger than anyone Conor has fought (in UFC at least, he wasn't on my radar before that), but not really bigger than Conor himself. ", 
        "I think he might have, or at least that's how he talked. He repeatedly saying that no-one can handle his left hand. Which would make sense considering it's the only damn thing he threw during the fight. Aside from a few uppercuts, and he didn't throw a single kick with any conviction. \n\nI'm a huge McGregor fan, I've always loved to watch Diaz fight. Conor's popularity and his public persona got to his head in this fight. From the first bell he was thinking \"highlight reel\". Not gonna happen against a Diaz, bro.\n\nWhile he wasn't \"2 weight classes\" bigger, Nate was a lot bigger than Conor. It looked like Conor was fighting his big brother at times during the fight.\n\nI'd love to see a rematch, with Conor actually using his fucking brain. Where Nate has a full camp, and Conor comes in expecting a war and not a 4 minute KO.", 
        "Oh, undoubtedly I would love to see a fight with both of them getting full camps and being smart.\n\nBut Nate just fought at LW. He was not in WW shape, he was in 2 months after LW shape. He simply wasn't bigger. Go look up Nate when he fought Michael Johnson at LW a couple months ago, he actually looked bigger because he was able to train.", 
        "How was he fighting someone 25lbs heavier than he was?", 
        "He said weight and size don't matter many times, he also said the opponent change doesn't matter so he has no excuse really. Just needs to work on his grappling, cardio and fight smarter next time.", 
        "That is an excuse though, anyone who thinks it's not different to fight, then gain 25 pounds in a bit over 2months and fight again and be the same doesn't know what they're talking about.  That's like saying he has no excuse to lose to John Jones since he told John he's coming for him. Gaining 25 pounds and fighting is not easy.", 
        "He definitely said it mattered in the post fight interview. He said that if diaz was a lighter weight he would have crumbled under his shots like the other fighters did and that he just needs to adjust at higher weight classes. ", 
        "Pretty funny considering what he said at the weigh in.\n\nhttps://youtu.be/W8cQl9rwU4Q?t=2144", 
        "If it doesn't matter, why does he keep bringing it up?", 
        "And maybe pay attention to that weight, size, and opponent thing. Thinkin you're gonna get a quick knockout on a Diaz brother ain't the best game plan. ", 
        "He is a god...in his own mind", 
        "Such an awesome guy.\n\nWe'll have to wait and see if Mystic Mac can get his aura back. ", 
        "He sure fucking will. He's just gonna tone it down a lil bit.\n\nMinor setback for a major comeback", 
        "Mystic Tap", 
        "I don't think he ever lost it", 
        "Seriously. I don't think there are very many guys that could take the beating Diaz took.\n\nEven that loss is a McGregor win 99 times out of 100, IMO.", 
        "God fucking help whoever he gets next. ", 
        "God I hope this turns out to be like GSP post Serra loss.", 
        "Probably another last-minute replacement with zero camp LOL", 
        "It'll probably be Frankie Edgar and I'm sure he'll do alright. \n\nWe've already seen McGregor fade and panic. Wait until Edgar drags him into the later rounds and starts pounding him like he did to Cub Swanson. ", 
        "Are you comparing McGregor to Cub fucking Swanson?", 
        "Yes. They're surprisingly similar fighters. McGregor is just slightly bigger. Guarantee you haven't watched too many Cub fights. \n\n", 
        "Now? Cub is done", 
        "So basically the same thing Diaz did? lol", 
        "Not quite. Diaz wore McGregor out by absorbing his punches, making him miss, and taking blows to the gloves and shoulders. Edgar will wear him out by forcing him to grapple. Both guys have better cardio and heart than McGregor but their approaches to beating him are different. ", 
        "Say whatever you want about it, but I think Conor still KO's Frankie. He won't be winging overhands and leaping in with uppercuts like last night. He'll just be sitting on the outside like normal with his reach advantage. Conor still has his power. It's just he was fighting a Diaz brother. ", 
        "Exactly", 
        "And Frankies not going to box with him. Hes going to mix up strikes and take him down. ", 
        "He can't escape that left hand shot", 
        "It'll be Aldo, I wish it was Frankie though. ", 
        "It should be Frankie. He's no pushover and Aldo doesn't deserve anything after that bombfest. ", 
        "I think Aldo does deserve it, he was unbeaten for a decade. However, Frankie deserves it as well and Frankie hasn't pulled out of a fight with McGregor and got KO'd when they did fight in 13 seconds. In a perfect world MeGregor would fight Frankie and Aldo would fight Max and the winner of that fight would get the Champ.", 
        "I dont think so, he pulled out the first fight, got KO'd the second fight, said \"no\" to a third fight. I think Aldo has pissed away his 3 strikes to fight conor. I think Frankie is next", 
        "I think Frankie killed his chances when he started talking shit about the UFC hiring a wrestler to train Conor, and there was something about steroids too. I think this is one of those times where Dana will \"protect\" Conor, but it's personal. ", 
        "It should be Frankie but Aldo is the safer fight. ", 
        "yeah but I dont want aldo to get a rematch, hes acted like a classless ass since losing the belt", 
        "You expect Aldo to fight at 145 on 11 days notice? That fight on 155 doesn't make sense.", 
        "Aldo said he'd fight mcgregor any time any place any weight, it didnt need to be for the belt, he just wanted a rematch, he got offered one, was the first guy dana called, he said no, so tough shit for him", 
        "Aldo is also absolutely beaten to shit and needs like a month of physio before he can even start his camp. He's never going to be a late replacement fighter. ", 
        "like ive said before, Aldo shouldnt have taken the fight, hes not ready, but opportunity came knocking and he didnt answer, the UFC doesnt care if its the best time for you to take a fight, if they offer you an opening and you say no for whatever reason, its too bad, and that goes for everyone, im not picking on aldo, its why condit probably isnt getting a rematch with lawler next (him saying he wants to sit out until he gets another title shot)", 
        "For me he held that belt for 10 years and lost in a very unsatisfying way. Aldo easily beat Edgar fighting at 70%, he deserves the shot. Frankie also turned the fight down. ", 
        "frankie was actually injured, aldo just wasnt ready", 
        "If that's true, maybe he shouldn't have gone around giving interviews saying he'd take the fight any time, anywhere?", 
        "Agreed. I really hope Aldo isn't in the picture for a while. Edgar next", 
        "> sair \"no\" to a third fight\r\rHe just got out of suspension, and he should fought at 170 at two weeks notice with no belt on the line?\r\rGTFO of here, nuthugger.", 
        "\"Anytime, anywhere.\"", 
        "Conor was preparing for an RDA title fight so it would be at 155, and aldo said publicly after 194 that he'd only accept a title rematch or a 155 fight with conor, belt wasnt needed, he just wanted conor again. I believe it was smart for him to say no, imo Aldo needs to sit out a few more months, but the UFC doesnt give a shit, you get windows and opportunities and its up to you to take them. If you pass on them, you risk that opportunity not being there when you're ready to take it. Aldo is notorious for pulling out and isnt a big draw so hes already not in a position to call shots now that hes not the champ, and he got a chance to rematch conor, he was the first guy Dana called, he said no, which is fine, but he doesnt get to keep clamoring for a rematch, he got offered one and said no thanks, he fucked off his chance. We're also talking about the guy who DID get put down in 13 seconds, dont forget that bud", 
        "would have been at 155 ", 
        ">GTFO of here, nuthugger\n\nI'm tired of little punks like you trying to discredit other user's opinion because you don't like who they support. Little punk ass bitch", 
        "I was drunkenly trolling around the Sherdog forums last night and it is infinitely more civil than this place, I think the average age of /r/mma has gone way down recently. ", 
        "I'm 20, not exactly seasoned. I just don't like this narrative that because someone is a fan of a certain fighter/team/whatever you can attack them based on that. If that guy didn't have a McGregor flair that dude wouldn't have said shit. The anonymity of the internet really brings out the worst in people.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Yeah, that's right, hide behind that computer baby girl", 
        "Are you crazy?  \"Pissed away his 3 strikes to fight Conor\"?  Do you not know how MMA works?  There's no \"3 strikes and you're out\" rule.", 
        "sorry, i forgot its 2 tries to get a strike, i got my sports confused", 
        "Frankie makes more sense. Only Dana likely knows if aldo truly rejected the rematch here. If aldo is saying he wanted to fight 'anytime any place.' then rejected the rematch then he can just go ahead and go fuck himself for calling conor a pussy for stepping up 2 weight classes and taking this fight. \n\nFrankie at least had the excuse of actually having an injury when he was offered this card. I do believe that aldo should take more time off but if you're going to take time off you DO NOT get to call someone a pussy and say \"I'll fight you anytime anywhere.\" then not do that...", 
        "EXACTLY. The UFC is about siezing opportunites, taking 189 on 2 weeks notice wasnt an ideal situation for mendes but he went out and took a shot at it, a welterweight fight on 11 days notice wasnt ideal (in hindsight i guess), but conor nutted up and took a shot. Aldo pussyfoots around too much, he seems more scared of losing that he is motivated to win/take chances/make history, fucking drives me nuts about that guy", 
        "Can people stop calling it a WW fight. Do you people not watch mma. It was a LW fight. They just didn't Cut weight. Neither guys are WW. If they were WW they would weight 190+lbs. He didn't even take a risk. He fought a top 10 LW that should have caused him less problems than the champion. His opponent took it on 11 days notice with no training camp while Conor benefited from a full camp. \n", 
        "Do you not watch mma? nate weighed in at 169, so he probably was 180ish in the cage. FWs weight in at 145 and probably are 160 in the cage. Fighting a guy 20 lbs heavier than you're used to is a big difference that we saw when nate was able to just eat up the kind of shots conor was putting featherweights to sleep with. Plus conor wasnt used to carrying that extra weight and he gassed out hard", 
        "A full camp preparing for a shorter fighter he would have had a reach advantage over to be fair.\n\nNate is both taller and had a slight reach advantage over Conor, and when he's on point he's got some of the best hands in the business.\n\nPrepared for Nate and on paper, yes he should have been the easier fight, but a camp based around RDA isn't going to translate well to throwing leather with a Diaz.\n\nI feel he did take a risk by fighting Nate on 11 days notice, Nate has his weaknesses for sure, but in his element he's near the top of the pile.\n\nI mean give Nate Jose Aldos explosive takedown defense and you've got a guy who could very likely be the champ.\n\nBeyond that, I do agree with you, it was basically what a light weight fight ends up being without all the smoke and mirrors that is the current state of weight cutting and classes.", 
        "Except Conor doesn't prepare for a specific fighter in his camp...\n\nhttp://bleacherreport.com/articles/2506620-conor-mcgregors-head-coach-says-notorious-doesnt-care-who-he-fights-at-ufc-189", 
        "Has Aldo even been cleared? He got KTFO in December, highly doubt he would've been able to be medically cleared in time, especially when factoring in for the past 2 months he can't train cuz of medical suspension. So 2 month layoff of no training right to a fight probably isn't very smart. Can't really blame him even if he did say no.", 
        "i dont blame aldo but you cant just turn away opportunities in the UFC and expect them to still be there later", 
        "He lost 1 fight in 10 years, and now he's going to be skipped over because he was medically unable to be in shape to take a fight on 11 days notice? That's sad.", 
        "when you arent a big draw, refuse to/cant learn the native language of the company you work for, are known for pulling out of fights and nearly trash a ppv by backing out on 2 weeks, and finally get knocked out in less time than it takes to say \"holy shit that was fast\", yeah, you get skipped on opportunities, aldo only had pull because he was champ, he didnt pull huge numbers or anything that would make the UFC want to throw him a bone other than being a champion. Well... hes not one anymore", 
        "Didn't realize matchups were set based on whether you're a draw or not. I thought this was UFC, not WWE. You know, where the best fight the best, not the best talkers fight the best. And when you've defended your belt 6 times before losing, and lost to a flukey punch (and yes I'm calling it flukey, not a fluke cuz it happened legit & Aldo got KTFO, but something neither CMG had done before or Aldo has had done to him before, so flukey) 12 seconds into the fight and don't get an immediate rematch, yet a guy like Cain who defended his belt once get an immediate rematch, it's kinda lame.", 
        "yeah, this is UFC, they ARE a business trying to make money. so being an entertaining fighter matters. Im not saying whether or not it SHOULD be like that, im saying its like that, whether people like it or not, and the UFC is breaking personal gate, attendance, ect. records left and right so whatever they're doing is working", 
        "Goddammit...he's even good at losing...", 
        "He is the goat loser", 
        "Haha!!!", 
        "Dude is nothing short of an inspiration. Fuck the haters. ", 
        "Screams from the haters got a nice ring to it.", 
        "This. So much this. Fuck the haters.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What have you done with your life? He went from broke to featherweight champion in 3 years. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Hahaha that's cute. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What's a big shot like yourself doing on a message board? Don't you have franchises to run lol ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He's probably the grunt you hire to scrub your floors or at least that how he presents himself.", 
        "I don't really get the message board bit. If you own a couple business you're not allowed to shoot the shit on a message board?", 
        "Humble in defeat earns a ton of respect whether you love or hate the man. McGregor took a shot and it failed, but he is not making excuses. Right after the fight he was analyzing his loss and realized what he did wrong. The man is going to have a long and very prosperous career.", 
        "i was a huge mcg fan before, but even more now after the loss. There is a lot to learn from the man , irrespective of whether you hate him or love him ", 
        "This Instagram post is anything but humble.", 
        "this was the best reaction he could have had because eventually he would have lost, he gambled, lost and took it on the chin. Hopefully he learns from it and from his comments I thik he will", 
        "He took a shot and failed? Let's not make it sound like he was the underdog in this. Nate was the heavy underdog, Conor was cocky as fuck, and he got taken down a peg cause of it. Not making any excuses? The fact that he doesn't acknowledge that Nate had 10 days to train and beat him standing up means he's making excuses. All he's said after the fight is that \"he took a shot\" and that he was \"inefficient\". Humble in defeat my ass ", 
        "Here we go again with the 10 days notice shit. What exactly does a camp do? It gets your fitness up and sharpens your reflexes a bit, gets you moving. If you're using your camp to improve your game rather than peaking athletically, there is something very wrong in your game plan. But Diaz was training for a triathlon, and is in far better physical shape than Conor at any time of the year. People act like they called some bum off the street 10 days in advance. Unless you're on holiday getting fucked up every night, more than a week's notice shouldn't make that much difference. Nate didn't have any eal issues with Conor, but let's not act as if he hopped off the couch 10 days out and annihilated him. Same with Mendes, that fight would've gone down the same way no matter what. ", 
        "McGregor isn't humble in any sense of the word. You aren't humble just because you say you are.", 
        "Yeah....claiming out loud to social media that you're humble in anyway, about anything doesn't seem humble. That's for others to observe.\n\nAlso, let's not forget Conor's decree of \"weight classes don't matter\".\n\nThe problem with talking so much garbage is that it's going to get thrown back at you, because it's ridiculous.\n\n", 
        "Admitting you were wrong is sort of a key feature of being humble...", 
        "People are trying to spin this more in his favour and aren't ready to take it as it is. It's not even a humiliating loss for McGregor, it's just a loss against a game and good opponent.", 
        "Holy fuck would you calm down. No matter what Conor, people like you will always hate him for some bizarre reason", 
        "Ya hating someone for non-stop shit talking is a bizarre reason. Sucking on that guy's nuts tho... makes a lot of sense right? ", 
        "Turd", 
        "Dunno why you are downvoted, Conor can't go 24 hours of eating humble pie after spending 2 years talking trash about how he's the best and that everyone else has excuses.", 
        "He's selling fights. I feel like everyone takes his promoter persona as his real one. ", 
        "> I feel like everyone takes his promoter persona as his real one. \n\nWhat makes you (or other McGregor fans) think that his \"humility\" post fights is his real personality? Besides, his shit talking wouldn't be nearly as effective if people didn't believe it was, at some level, real. ", 
        "\"Or other mcgregor fans\". Why do you assume that?  I put money on Diaz and was rooting for him. \n\nJust go back and hear him talk before he was in the UFC. He was subdued and didn't say all the crazy stuff he does now. You can still see his \"normalness\" break through at times... Like when he was laughing at Nate's jokes at the conferences. I'm just saying that I'm pretty sure no one sees his real side unless they spend time with him off camera. An interview with his girlfriend would probably be very enlightening. ", 
        "The \"or other McGregor fans\" was meant to show that I wasn't assuming you were a McGregor fan. Sorry I phrased that badly.", 
        "You know what really made me upset last night?  The bar I was at had people calling Nate a punk and a disgrace. If people knew what he did for his community... I think they'd be hesitant to say that stuff. I'm not going to make similar judgements about Connor. I'm sure he's very different away from it all. ", 
        "So whats his real persona then? This one where hes still talking about how much he makes etc.. where he makes excuses for the fight saying it was a WW fight and he went up two wait classes that while technically correct it isn't with context. Says he lost because he wasn't efficient and not that Diaz tagged him up. ", 
        "First off, you're really focused on certain things he said. Would you say holm isn't humble because she blamed the loss on her being \"complacent\"?  Connor said that Nate had a good chin and good punches. He said he was an excellent fighter. You're focused on him saying he gassed... But he did gas. That's not taking away from Nate at all... Nate came in with hardly any camp and didn't gas. You're really focusing on certain things while ignoring others. \n\nAnd I'm pretty sure his real persona is when he isn't on camera trying to create an image that sells fights. Getting sucked into all of this is like taking WWE seriously.  There are times when Connor goes too far but that persona is selling fights and making his opponents money. \n\nGo back and watch some old interviews with him. Still has the confidence... But not the crazy. ", 
        "Because he ALWAYS says \"It's just me, I'm just being myself\"", 
        "So youd rather he verbally admit hes trying to sell fights", 
        "He tapped like a bitch", 
        "Conor won that first round for sure.", 
        "IMO conor was dominating the entire fight right up until Diaz landed that crisp combo that wobbled him. ", 
        "Was winning a lot of the second round too until he got caught a few times and went for the take down.\n\nSome of the poorest ground game I've seen from him, unfortunately. He'll come back stronger, I'm sure.", 
        "He didn't lose because of his ground game. He only went to the ground because he was getting fucked up standing up. The fight was over when Diaz tagged him with the left.", 
        "As I said, until he got caught. You could see his legs get wobbly.", 
        "Your comment implies he lost because of his ground game. He lost the fight standing. He went to the ground to avoid getting TKOed. He tapped in a fraction of a second because it was a way out of the fight. ", 
        "Ole!\n", 
        "And Holly Holm arguably won rounds 1,3,4...", 
        "She did according to the score cards. She was so close to winning that fight just to loose it in the 5th. I think she will be back as champ again at some stage though", 
        "I mean I guess the point is even if a fight is one way on the score card, it doesn't necessarily mean anything about the fight as a whole. ", 
        "Just like Chad won the first round against Conor, but all the Conor fans want to say is how he beat Chad's ass and knocked him out.", 
        "Barely won the first round. Most of his punches were grazed or parried and Nate was landing. Watch again.", 
        "Yes because he completely overexerted himself while Diaz remained calm.", 
        "Then what happened? ", 
        "he got schooled", 
        "There was this post fight press conference, and all of the fighters were texting", 
        "Got choked for sure.", 
        "and then lost that fight for sure.", 
        "Rekt for sure.", 
        "He said everything you're claiming he didn't.  How do you write this out?  You're cherry picking his analysis of the fight and why he lost, that's ridiculous.", 
        "What's he supposed to say? \"I suck dick at this sorry guys\" Yeah dude wth why didn't he say that", 
        "Did I say Conor shouldn't be saying what he said? I'm pointing out the fact that McGregor isn't humble and some sort of good guy that people are making him out to be. He was cocky, arrogant, and that bit him the ass. If he was humble, he would've admitted nate was the better fighter. ", 
        "He said Nate was the better man in the post fight press conference. And being humble isn't solely saying someone else is better than you. McGregor has always been humble in victory by giving props to his opponents, and his attitude in defeat is no different.", 
        "I don't think constantly pointing out that he \"took a shot\" as if he went into this fight as this massive underdog is being humble. Seriously people are acting as if Conor's some kind of amazing person cause he didn't shit talk after getting choked out. You lost. You're in position to shit talk. That's why he isn't shit talking. ", 
        "The fact that he went in as a bookie favourite isn't his fault though. I thought he'd beat an unprepared Diaz, but let's not pretend going up two weight divisions isn't 'taking a shot'. This fight was a huge risk, bookie prices notwithstanding. ", 
        "Jesus, he didn't go up 2 weight divisons!! Can we stop fucking saying that? It's just not true.\n\nYou don't get to brag and say this shit doesn't matter, and call your opponent skinny-fat non stop, and then after you lose bitch about how much bigger and stronger he was. \n\nConor was training for LW. Nate is a LW. He just fought at LW a couple of months ago, and was on time off. In no way could he possibly be considered a WW.", 
        "Here's the simple facts. His last fight was at 145. This fight was at 170. That's two divisions. You can twist it and justify it and wrap it around in as many ways as you like, but this fight was two divisions up from his last fight. ", 
        "That's humble.", 
        "that isn't humble. that is being a defeatist. ", 
        "Sorry...I thought the sarcasm was laid on thick enough for people to catch it. ", 
        "\"Nate is the better fighter, I hope you enjoyed the fight and I'll go back down to 145 and defend my belt.\nThis loss will only make me stronger mentally.\"\n\nThat would be more genuine.\n\nDon't even address Aldo.  RDA isn't a pussy since he probably would've knocked Conor the fuck out . Yes he really has a broken foot. Fighting with a broken foot would be stupid. More so if a belt is on the line.\n\nDon't tell people you're humble; that's for them to decide.", 
        "I don't think even 1% of fighters would ever come right out of a loss and say \"My opponent is a better fighter than me.\" Yeah, you've heard, \"Tonight, he was the better man,\" but never the former. It blows my mind that you guys believe he's not humble because he didn't say Nate is a better fighter than him. That wouldn't even be showcasing humility, it would be defeatist. The way he handled his loss gained my respect and the respect of many others, but you can be sure as hell if he came out and said Nate is a better fighter than me he would've lost respect from many fans instead. No one wants to see a fighter give up on themselves like that. I'd much rather he point out a reason why he lost, so at least he still has the confidence that in a rematch he can come back and win with an adjusted game plan. How the hell is he supposed to sell a rematch after saying Nate is better than me?\n\nAlso, RDA is absolutely a pussy for kicking a guy while he's down, especially since that was supposed to be his fight and he wasn't the one to take him down. It's a totally classless move on both Aldo and Dos Anjos' part. I wanted Conor to get humbled for the pussy shit he pulled during the stare down when he punched Nate's fist, but at the end of the fight I had nothing but respect for the man's class after the fight. As much of an asshole as he is leading up to a fight, Conor always shows class afterwards. \n\nLast but not least, Conor didn't call himself humble, that's what the unbiased fans of MMA are saying about him.\n\n", 
        "He certainly did call himself humble. Numerous times. Here's one example: http://www.mmafighting.com/2014/9/28/6857879/ufc-178-aftermath-conor-mcgregor-backs-up-the-smack-talk\n\nLet's not act like Conor wouldn't take to social media if RDA lost a fight and he had something on the books in the future with him.\n\nMcGregor fans have very selective recall. Go back and watch some of the pressers leading up to the RDA fight or even one of those Q &amp;amp; A panels with a whole bunch of fighters. He's hitting below the belt numerous times. He's the one who's started this level of personal, disrespectful trash talk.\n\nHe can sure dish it out but man, the level of butt hurt he gets when someone does it to him is off the charts.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "> Um he has no choice but to be humble in defeat\n\nYeah no fighter has ever not been humble in defeat. Danny Castillo, Tim Kennedy, Chael Sonnen, Ronda Rousey, every fighter is always humble in defeat. I swear the Conor haters are just as bad as the Conor lovers.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He could have just pulled a Chael or a Nick Diaz and claim the fight was BS, the rules are unfair, blah blah I'm the real champ. \n\nHe was humble because he does the same thing after every fight. Be humble.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Maybe, and this is a wild card idea, I know. Conor is humble because he just is. Like he could easily make more money just being the biggest heel in the ufc history. He could had a field day with that 13 second KO. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I think this sub tries to hard to make Conor's character polarizing. He's not abnormal. He talks some shit, doesn't take it seriously. He's not the worst scum of the Earth, he's not a beacon of morality. He's a cocky Irish kid that likes to fight. He's humble because he is just a normal guy.", 
        "So what is he supposed to do? He was beaten and he's taking it on the chin like a man. It's a hell of a lot better than a statement making excuses for himself or calling Nate out. He has actually went up in my estimation for the way he has handled the defeat. Inb4 #mcgregorfanboy", 
        "He was humble in defeat and now he's a fucking asshole again, a mortal asshole though", 
        "What kind of logic is that? Ronda had a choice and so did Conor. Give the man some respect.", 
        "He could have said nothing and disappeared. ", 
        "Bit like aldo?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He's still acting like an asshole and looks like a huge fucking idiot, whether hes trying to get a fight or not", 
        "There's some Irish guy that used to do that a lot and people always gave him a pass for it. Can't remember his name at the moment...", 
        "People do it all the time.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'd like to introduce you to Ronda Rousey.\n\nYou can't be serious, can you?", 
        "They're losers who have never accomplished anything. They hate on people who have instead.", 
        "Exactly, people are eating up this \"humbled\" response and he continues to babble on about his net worth.", 
        "It's not even humble though. He didn't take a shot and fail. He didn't go up two weight classes. He's naturally 155 and fought another lightweight. He still mentioned the weight classes making it sound like he's a natural featherweight who fought a natural welterweight. It he couldn't admit that he had a giant advantage over Diaz and just lost. Then he shitalks RDA and keeps bringing up the broken foot even though it was broken and the UFC wouldn't let him fight. Fucking McGregor is pathetic. This is Rousey levels of insecurity. The mention of money all but confirms it.", 
        "That's why I put humbled in quotations.  It's not even remotely humble when you brag about money after losing.  McGregor gets by on the good guy persona when he's actually an asshole.  Diaz proved he's a bitch on the mat too.", 
        "Seriously this is humble? All I've seen from him is how brave he is for going up in weight and how that's why he lost\n\nHumble would be giving your opponent the credit they're due. Nate won fair and square and deserves to be validated for that", 
        "Maybe you should read the other words in the message then.", 
        "You mean like \"fuck you Aldo\"?", 
        "Never thought I'd say it: I really like Conor. ", 
        "Yea I really hope this sub doesn't turn on him just cause he lost. ", 
        "Love him or hate him, he is undeniably great for the sport of MMA. I don't think he could have handled this loss any better.", 
        "For sure, super classy of him and Nate both. Sad to see Connors train slow down, but Nate is just as fun to root for", 
        "It was good until he said about going up two weight classes.  If you have to bring that up you aren't accepting the loss like a man and are just making excuses.  Conor you lost at your own game and the way you chose it.  Don't discredit the win by making it sound like you weren't at your best.", 
        "All he's doing is acknowledging the challenge that he took on. Nothing wrong with that. ", 
        "No, he's being misleading. He didn't move up two weight classes. He fought a 155er who didn't do a water cut. This was a lightweight fight.", 
        "He fought two weight classes up, period.", 
        "When you leave out the context sure. Without the context it's meaningless though.", 
        "I agree, if you want to leave out context he should have to give up belt as well.", 
        "I agree. And I didn't care for the energy excuse. No weight cutting and always being in fighting shape, Connor just lost. Period. I honestly think the boxing and lack of mental intimidation won it for Nate.", 
        "i think he mentions he went up 2 weight classes simply because its unheard of recently....hes reminding people he didnt have to take that risk but he did anyway. ", 
        "i give all my respects to Conor and Nate for putting on a show. Thats the kind of fight i buy pay per views for.", 
        "Looks to be handling defeat better than Aldo did, and he's better at showing up for fights too.\n\nMistake for him to think he could KO guys at WW easily as FW, but props for going up in weight and takings fight.\n\nI won't say anything about dos anjos, because I don't know the extent of his injury , but Connor is right when he said he showed up, Aldo only showed up on Twitter.", 
        ">because I don't know the extent of his injury\n\nWhat do you mean? There's been a few pictures posted showing how swollen and mangled his foot is.\nAlso, Aldo didn't make any excuses after his loss too, he stayed for the post-fight and took the L like a man and admitted he got caught with a great shot.", 
        "great fighter and a great champion, can't wait to see him fight again\n\nno shame in losing to nate, i hope conor stays confident and hungry for titles as he was coming into this fight", 
        "What a great line. \"When the history books are written, I showed up. You showed up on Twitter.\"\n\nServes Aldo especially right. That guy has no claim to talk trash. Just sit and wait for a rematch if he can get one.\n", 
        "Are we ignoring Aldo's 10 year reign now? Connor and his fans are classless peices of shit. ", 
        "im not ignoring it, but calling someone a pussy right after they lost, despite the fact that you lost to him in embarrassing fashion (after originally pulling out of the fight due to a \"rib injury\") is bad form.  imo, edgar is next in line for a title shot, and that match would draw more money.  aldo is not a captivating opponent.", 
        "Still my boy! congrats to Nate, hopefully Ronda takes some advice on how to deal with a loss", 
        "He needs to move his camp and get rid of all the yes men. If he does that he'll be unstoppable.", 
        "He doesn't need to move anywhere. Even if his coaches were as bad as Edmond (which they definitely are not), Conor is basically his own coach at this point. He doesn't have retard fight IQ like Ronda.", 
        "He just creamed the featherweight division, then lost to one of the best hitters at lightweight fighting at a 170 catchweight and you think he needs to change camp? Yeah that makes perfect sense buddy. This is probably the most idiotic comment I've seen upvoted in relation to this fight. ", 
        "So salty.", 
        "Those embedded videos are so cringe worthy, I fast-forward all his segments because I just can't see him act like a fucking 10-year-old around his hot girlfriend who is probably just riding the money wave until it's gone and all is dumb fuck friends laughing at retarded jokes like it's the funniest shit I've ever heard", 
        "Did you listen to his corner last night during the fight?", 
        "oh here we go.  we going to give Conner's coaches the Tavarian treatment?  ", 
        "More like the BJ Penn treatment.", 
        "Conor just needs an Energy Coach to make sure his stamina bar doesn't get too low during fights.", 
        "I think there are reasons for that:\n\n-Adding weight means you're bigger and not used to managing stamina as well based on new requirements.\n\n-The act of cutting weight and maintaining it is, generally, cardio training in and of itself.  Cutting back on or eliminating that could reduce your cardio ability.\n\nI think Joe Lauzon was the one who pointed that out and it seems pretty on point and something that might not be expected by many people in an attempt to put on weight. ", 
        "I would've thought that Conor would realize that.", 
        "Maybe, I certainly am assuming based on my never having heard that as a consideration before.", 
        "Yea I noticed this too. The only fight where it seemed like he really had to catch his breath after the first.", 
        "Two names, and you spelled them both wrong. Congrats. ", 
        "Yes men, lol he makes some bad fight decisions and gets bashed, after tearing through feather weight and smashing aldo, and now he is surrounded by yes men. As schaub would say, stay in your lane with the mma camp advice 'for sure'.", 
        "What, he should remove himself? You really think that other people were the yes men?", 
        "> He needs to move his camp and get rid of all the yes men. If he does that he'll be unstoppable.\n\nWell, it looks like Ido Portal is out of business! ", 
        "From what I gathered all of his camp are the guys who've been with since the beginning or early on. Except his movement coach. He is the only one I could see being a yes man", 
        "Nothing but respect for Mystic Mac. In his words, *I wish him well*. ", 
        "He is a credit to the MMA community!", 
        "Im just happy that one of the Diaz brother's finally got a payday they deserved (with the help of conor's fight hype). This should increase Nate's purse from here on out. Say what you want about McGregor but he is helping other fighters get paid, while raising the profile of the UFC. i cannot wait to see him back and fighting like a true warrior. \nWin or lose, McGregor and both Nick and Nate Diaz are still my favorite fighters in the UFC.  \n  \nIf you cant support them when they lose, then you shouldnt support them when they win.  \nGlory Hunters are the worst. flip floppin sons of bitches  \n  \nBring on Nate Diaz vs McGregor II or make all my wet dreams come true with Nick Diaz vs McGregor\n", 
        "Saying that you are a good person because you make money is classless.\n\nYour pay-per-view buys do not decide whether your actions are correct or good in any way.", 
        "I read this in his voice weird.", 
        "Especially the \"Nate I will meet you again\"", 
        "Some care to explain what's going on here to someone who doesn't follow MMA but still likes controversy?", 
        "**You'd better read this shit. I put way more effort into it than I should've, hopefully it's well-written enough to keep your attention.**\n\nConor McGregor has been on an undefeated (in the UFC) hot streak of early KOs culminating in his record-setting 13 second KO of long-time champ and all time great Jose Aldo, winning him the featherweight (145 lb) belt. He was supposed to challenge the lightweight (155 lb) champ Rafael dos Anjos in an effort to be the first in UFC history to hold two belts simultaneously. There have been multi-weight champs before, but never simultaneously. \n\nUnfortunately, dos Anjos broke his foot about 10 days before the fight and had to pull out. The UFC scrambled for late replacements to keep the fight going, and Nate Diaz was chosen. Diaz being the 5th ranked lightweight who had already been destroyed by dos Anjos, and lacking the \"training camp\" fighters usually go through(usually 4-6 weeks of constant training meant to allow a fighter to hit their maximum physical potential for a short window of time), Diaz was a huge underdog, and many thought McGregor would knock him out early in the fight, as he'd famously predicted and done several times before.\n\nNow something to know about McGregor is that he's a huge trash talker, and certainly the most effective the sport has seen in terms of getting eyes on him and stirring up controversy. He was making a lot of claims about being the greatest ever, and his plans to be the first ever to be champion of three weight classes, and how he was the big money fight and everyone else was a bum in comparison and so on and so forth. Adding to this, he's very proud of his Irish heritage and has generated a huge and loyal Irish fanbase for himself and the UFC.\n\nThe Diaz brothers (Nate's older brother Nick fights in the weight class above him) are also famous trash talkers and taunters, but they mostly keep it to the cage rather than at press conferences, where they're notoriously reticent. In keeping with this, Diaz had called McGregor out after winning his last fight. McGregor really took the trash talk to another level for this fight, in terms of volume, bravado, and some would say nastiness. So there was a lot of dramatic tension built up going into it. There was an interesting dynamic between McGregor's constant talk about money and how rich he was, and Diaz's background of growing up in the extremely rough and impoverished area of Stockton with only his brother Nick to count on. This was made stranger by McGregor's working class background- some suggested he shouldn't forget where he came from.\n\nAn important thing to note is that the fight ended up taking place at welterweight (170 lbs) rather than the expected lightweight (155 lbs) because Diaz would be unable to cut down that much on such short notice. Though Diaz offered a 165 lb \"catchweight,\" a confident McGregor suggested they simply fight at welterweight. As a result, Diaz cut relatively little, and McGregor cut little to nothing. All in all, Diaz probably walked into the cage 5-10 lbs heavier, though he was carrying some fat, being out of camp.\n\nThe fight itself was a great one: McGregor was more confident than ever, walking Diaz down and winging his famous left hand with everything he could muster- and landing, quite a few times in the first round. This style had recently become the norm for McGregor. When he landed that left hand, and he always did, whoever it hit would usually go down. If they didn't, he only had to crack them a few more times, and that was that. Of his seven fights in the UFC, six of his opponents were KOed within two rounds. His ability to predict KOs and deliver on them seemed almost mystical, and he predicted another first round KO for Diaz, despite the Diaz brother's remarkable endurance. Many, if not most believed him, and the betting odds reflected it.\n\nSo when Diaz took his best shots flush for a round and was still fighting, it started to become clear that something was very wrong. Not only was Diaz conscious, he seemed completely unfazed, continually taunting, delivering the famous \"Stockton slap,\" a simple slap to the face meant not only to check distance but even moreso to enrage the opponent into making mistakes. Though McGregor took the first round handily, Diaz was basically unhurt but for a cut over his eyebrow and other cosmetic damage, which didn't indicate much more than a glancing blow. Worse for McGregor, Diaz was starting to find his range with the high-volume straight punches he's known for. This is significant; for the first time in his career, McGregor is fighting someone bigger than him, and crucially with longer reach.\n\nAs the second round opened, it looked almost like more of the same- McGregor headhunting, landing some hard punches. It seemed, however, that he'd lost a bit of spring in his step, and his punches and movement had maybe lost a beat due to his energy dump in round one. Though he was far from gassed, he was certainly more tired than Diaz, who is known as a cardio machine who pretty much never runs out of energy. Diaz started to open up more, landing his long, lazy 1-2s that started to frustrate McGregor and break his rythm. McGregor was unhurt by these \"pillow punches\" and continued walking through Diaz's punches, trying to trade his more powerful hits for Diaz's peppering shots, letting himself be hit. Seemingly out of nowhere (using one of his classic tactics), Diaz opened up on one of his 1-2s, catching McGregor's chin flush with a hard left straight, sending him reeling on wobbly legs. This was the first time in his career that McGregor had been rocked like this. With his opponent clearly hurt, Diaz started to swarm, continually popping him with hard jabs and straights as McGregor fought desperately to regain his wits. Diaz kept up relentless pressure, never allowing McGregor to recover, culminating in a desperate  and ineffective takedown from McGregor, whose grappling had been in serious question ever since his rapid rise to the top. Diaz, meanwhile, is known as a crafty and highly skilled submission artist. He transitioned to full mount (one of the two most dominant groundfighting positions) with ease, raining down punches on McGregor, who gave up his back and subsequently a rear naked choke to which he tapped, late in the second round.\n\nBecause of the unprecedented amount of shit-talking done by McGregor, and the passionate fans and anti-fans he inspired, he's faced a decent backlash as a result of this loss. His mystique of invincibility and KO power at any weight class is gone, and many are saying he can only be the best by cutting a ton of weight to make featherweight (145), where he is far and away the largest fighter. One of the things McGregor had been saying was that he would be the best in any weight class, that he could KO anyone from featherweight to lightweight to welterweight. This has been demonstrated to be untrue, and though it was likely just bluster to sell fights, he's been catching a lot of flack for his inflated ego and insane cockiness. Now, he's been saying things like \"I took a risk fighting a bigger man,\" which many see as a silly excuse after talking himself up so much and are dismissing him as overrated.\n\nAs always, the truth is somewhere in the middle. McGregor probably should've done a little less talking to avoid this kind of backlash, but at the same time he really did take on a huge challenge with this fight by volunteering to do it at welterweight. He'll still be a huge draw and is still a great fighter, but his mystique is gone, and he seems human once again.\n\nTL;DR: You better read that novel I just wrote, but basically- McGregor talks an epic amount of shit all the time and especially for this fight, looks like he's going to back it up again, then loses in dramatic and somewhat humiliating fashion. In the aftermath, some perceive his reaction as excuse-making and others see it as humility. Really, it's a bit of both. I highly recommend watching the fight if you can find it.\n\n", 
        "I read it. And thank you!", 
        "It kinda feels like these Conor fans would've loved Tank Abbott or Kimbo Slice. They have the \"I'll fight anyone\" attitude, and because they're not afraid, that's why they should be praised.  \n\nWell, the Diaz brothers ain't afraid of anyone either.", 
        "Fuck the haters, nothing but respect to Conor and Nate both. ", 
        "If Nate was out-of-shape and went up one weight class, then why does it matter if Conor was in-shape and up two weight classes, especially considering that Nate was only one pound heavier?", 
        "That was his weigh-in weight. Diaz was over 180 come fight time. ", 
        "Wow, because he said he lost weight from being sick.  I wonder how he cuts down to 155.", 
        "Not making excuses, Nate was training for a triathlon.  He is in phenomenal shape.  ", 
        "That's not the same as fight shape. ", 
        "Conor said he was out-of-shape, and he definitely looked it.  Perhaps our eyes and Conor's opinion are both wrong.", 
        "Conor says all kinds of stupid shit leading up to fights.  I'm glad he lost after the way he was talking to Nate on CNBC.  That being said, triathletes have cardio that is second to none. ", 
        "Training for a triathlon does not prepare a person's muscles to fight.  However, let's assume Conor was wrong, and our eyes were wrong.  Nate was \"in-shape\".  I still don't understand why it matters that Nate was one pound heavier than Conor.  That doesn't really count as him being the bigger man.", 
        "Nate knows how to fight 365. ", 
        "i dont know why people think this shows conor has class. \n\nThis is the same guy that snatched aldo's belt at a conference.\n \nThis is the same guy that threw a hook at his opponents hand at a stare down. \n\nThis is the same guy that called his German opponent a Nazi\n\nThis is the same guy who made fun of Nate for teaching a childrens BJJ class (which conor should really attend if he has time)\n\nThis is the guy who called himself an MMA God. \n\nThis is a guy who was on welfare, and now that he has made money, makes fun of other people for being poor. \n\nHe has no sense of humility and this is exhibited when he tells the world \"I am humble in defeat.\" but goes on providing excuses on how he only lost because he moved up 2 weight classes. Nate weighed in at 169, he wasn't a full fledged welterweight either. \n\nPeople want to hail him as in inspiration, or a ambassador of martial arts, but nah man, hes just been cutting an extreme amount of weight to bully smaller fighters. \n\n\n", 
        "Ikr. It's not up to you to say whether or not you're humble in defeat. Let others decide. If you have to say you have humility, it's clear you don't.", 
        "Underrated comment. he's been enjoying the height and reach advantage at 145, but he just got a rude awakening about the new talent pool at 155.", 
        "Agreed. Great post!", 
        "I've noticed this talk right before some sort of excuse comes out a few days later.I honestly think Nate saved him the mauling RDA would have put on him", 
        "Yup. Weidman was the same way.", 
        "Jose Aldo cried like a child after losing. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nConor McGregor embraced the adversity and accepted defeat without hesitation or self-pity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", 
        "There's nothing wrong with crying\n\nJus sayin", 
        "Conor would have cried too if he lost like Aldo did. ", 
        "He does keep bringing up the fact that he \"went up two weight classes\" though", 
        "Undefeated for 10 years and champ for all his years in the ufc. I think he gets a pass for shedding a tear when he gets starched in 13 seconds ", 
        "they never showed us conor's locker room footage though", 
        "the last time there was a livestream of locker room on youtube before and after. I couldnt find it this time, did they stop doing it?", 
        "i'd like to see that!", 
        "Curious to see if he is hugging Dee Devlin or Ido Portal ", 
        "Getting koed on the 1st punch after a year of buildup is pretty bad though ", 
        "No kidding, I was embarrassed for Aldo. Like when he had the towel on his face to dry his tears?\nI can't imagine how horrible he felt at that moment.", 
        "Legitimately just saw a Facebook status that opened with the opinion that we can't rule out the fight is rigged...", 
        "Facebook is a fucking cancer.", 
        "In fairness if he won we'd have hundreds of those.", 
        "lol post full status ", 
        "http://imgur.com/a/pTO0b", 
        "So making excuses and prattling on in the similar vein of money he earns is being humble?\n\n>I went up 2 weight classes to fight\n\nUhh no you didn't, you went up 1 weight class and didn't cut.  You fought a 155er on 3 weeks notice and got your ass handed to you.", 
        "a 155er who weighed 182 on fight night lol. ", 
        "Diaz didn't weigh 182 on fight night, where'd you read that?  If he didn't cut and weighed in at 169 where did those extra 13 pounds come from??", 
        "He did cut weight. I'd imagine mostly water. https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4997jv/spoiler_nate_diaz_weighed_182lbs_last_night_gil/", 
        "Reading that it's not like Conor doesn't either, apparently he typically weighs around 173~  so it's not even that big of a discrepancy.", 
        "The thing with that is, he said multiple times he's underweight lol. He was bragging how he had a full belly, 2 breakfasts/day, steak for lunch, etc. So I don't see how he'd come in at 168, since they'd want him at 170 on the dot. ", 
        "Well the point is he only fought at 170 out of convenience, not in that actually weight class.  He fought a 155er who barely cut and got the shit kicked out of him.\n\nEven Gil saying that I still find it hard to believe he was that heavy, especially if he was in the middle of training for a triathlon.  Not saying it's not true just seems peculiar.", 
        "Just speculation, only a few people would really know anyways. Idk if you were watching the same fight but before Conor gassed he was actually doing well, it was a helluva fight! ", 
        "Ya I was watching, he was doing decently for sure on points and damage but he didn't have much going for him after he realized that Nate is going anywhere or getting rocked by his punches.  Conor gassing is another issue that just opens more holes in his game though, if he can't put you out in the first what energy is he going to have left for the rest of the fight.", 
        "He was just throwing his celtic cross over and over, full power. He was leaning into it so much you could see it when he'd miss. Perhaps not enough cardio work done on top, but again who knows! I'm hopeful he won't do it again when he comes back, and actually learns from this like they pride themselves at SBG. \n\nKind of a funny side note, when he stood up going into the 2nd I believe he was saying \"all day\" to Nate lmao. Couldn't hear obviously but thats what it looked like from his lips. ", 
        "I would be a McGregor fan if he wasn't banging on about money... leave that shit for the pretend gangster boxers. Money is not the mark of a man.\n\nHe's right about Dos Anjos and the little Brazillian fella - he went out and fought in a bigger weight class at quite a risk for himself and it didn't pay off.... while they are sitting posting shit on the internet.", 
        "\"Pretend gangster boxers\" Grow some balls and just say black guys", 
        "What?\n\nNot all black people are boxers you dohnut, and neither are wanna be gangsters.", 
        "> I would be a McGregor fan if he wasn't banging on about money... leave that shit for the pretend gangster boxers. Money is not the mark of a man.\n\nBest take a nap, then.", 
        "It is rather sleep inducing, so he has a point.", 
        "You think Nate would make $500,000 without fighting McGregor? I can understand how it can come across as obnoxious but the facts are facts.", 
        "If the Diaz brothers cared that much about money, they would have quit fighting a long while ago.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "humiliated?", 
        "You obviously ", 
        "Rousey, Aldo, and Mendes are all sore losers. There's a bad way to handle a loss. Don't be so naive. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It's never easy to handle a loss... Let alone when your huge hype train was derailed. Rousey was a shining example of how it can be the other way around. She had way more hype behind her nationally.  ", 
        "Hey, at least he is a taking it better than Ronda.", 
        "Good chance his PR guy scribed this masterpiece ", 
        "I was with you until you said he was humiliated. He fought to the end. He didn't get KO'd, didn't break a bone...he destroyed diaz's face, forget about the prior weak scar tissue. This is the same tactic Ali used. Be loud, be proud and the attention will come to you. That was one of the greatest fights I've ever seen. Conor can only fail if he doesn't adjust his game and we know this man is hungry, so that's out of the question. ", 
        "He was humiliated in that all that prophetic talk, his whole mystic mac persona came crashing down. The \"panic wrestler\", \"I can tell he's scared\", \"no one can take the left hand\", \"kid jiu-jitsu\", etc. all that came crashing down. He's gonna have to live with the humiliation of facing the music of what he said and what happened. ", 
        "I agree with you that he didn't get humiliated. He did get finished, but he landed some damn good shots. There's a reason Nate's face looked the way it did after this win and not in his win vs johnson. That reason is that it was a competitive fight where he took a lot of damage.\n\nI'm one of the biggest haters of the Diaz brothers you'll see in this sub, but even I think people aren't giving him enough credit. Dude took some fucking bombs and didn't slow down at all.", 
        "Yeah I'll be the first to give credit to Diaz for that performance. Tbh I was bashing him up and down in the days leading up to it, but after that fight I wasn't bitter or resentful. He made my man fight to the end and I felt emotionally drained at the conclusion. You know what that means? It means it was a good fucking fight. ", 
        "How does it not show true character? Ronda Rousey was an extremely hyped fighter and look how she handled it? So no this isn't the general response of a hyped fighter trying to save his image. I don't know how you can still find hatred in this when he's held his head high, admitted his mistakes and faced the hate head on. I seen tears in his eyes when announcing the winner and that to me shows how much he cares about this sport and it's not just all about money. I feel bad you can't at least take inspiration from him.", 
        "While it is annoying that he's still making the weight excuse and bragging about money, at least he's taking it better than Ronda and will probably be ready to fight again in July ", 
        "I mean there are alot of people who get bitter when they lose. He seemed to be talking shit only to the people who were waiting to jump on his loss hype, and rightly so.", 
        "> just humiliated\n\nJesus Christ.  He was whooping Nate in the first round.  He didn't exactly get embarrassed like Ronda did now did he.", 
        "He wasn't whooping anything. I give Connor the 1st but it was reasonably close, there was zero look of concern on Nate's face after the 1st.", 
        "Of course he's playing the hand he's dealt. But compare this to what Ronda did. ", 
        "Yeah he literally couldn't even last half a day after a loss without reminding us he has money lol", 
        "In a way I agree with you, but then I am conflicted because he really does show up to fight whenever, wherever, whoever and at the end of the day and Aldo and RDA showed up on Twitter. It hurts me to say that about Aldo especially. ", 
        "Yeah, RDA should have totally manned up and fought with a broken foot. /s", 
        "Yeah you know what man? He should have! He's kicking himself in the head right now for not taking it. Now he realizes he probably missed his chance. He will never get a pay day like that again in his career. I would have done it. You would have done it. They didn't. When the fight is coming up you need to be prepared and train smart. \n\nPretend you're a baseball fan (maybe you are). Sorry guys the bluejays are out of the playoffs cuz a few players are injured. They should be held liable. It costs me $70 fucking dollars to order a ppv. We should get what we want.", 
        "He could have snapped his leg in half it wouldnt change the point.", 
        "Can't wait to see Conor's next fight. Having said that I'm fucking disappointed with Aldo.", 
        "I find McGregor to be an obnoxious prick but god damn he's got some balls on him.", 
        "> I find McGregor to be an obnoxious prick\n\nYou could have just stopped there", 
        "I thought weight class didn't matter with Connor? This is what kills me about Connor fans. All he talks about is his money, saying casually racist bullshit, calls people pussies for not fighting with broken bones. Talks super shit about Diaz, even making fun of him for teaching BJJ. Buuuuuut, when he loses, its excuses. You cant tell people how you're gonna SMASH any and everyone reglardless of weight, then get schooled like a child on the ground and handily losing the stand up game in the 2nd and then make excuses. HE FUCKING QUIT. Period, bottom line. He gave up. BJ going up in weight was wayyyy more impressive. Let the down votes rain down. Its crazy how many people on here thinks hes a good guy. He's just not. ", 
        "Putting favouritism aside, how can people not see the beauty in too hardcore fellas coming out and trading leather and testing themselves against each others metal and skill set. Fighters evolve, the best fighters learn defeats. They way I sum it up is that Nate got the credit he deserved finally and Conor found another benchmark or water level to work on from now, his whole vibe was out of control, he needed to be humbled and I couldn't think of anyone better to do it, Nate and Nick were down to earth and showed class throughout. The worm has turned.", 
        "I agree and we should want defeats of top fighters -- that means a division is competitive.  Unlike some boxers where 'undefeated' doesn't tell you a thing.", 
        "\"Humble\"", 
        "Yeah, that bothered me too.  He is trying to be humble, in the most braggart way possible.  ", 
        "There's a word for that, humblebrag.", 
        "That's the joke . . .", 
        "That's all I see in what he says. It's gotten to the point, and it's his own damn fault, where the \"maturity\" and \"humbleness\" feel like fake, phoned-in bullshit he's just saying to try and look like he's not such a cunt after all.", 
        "What a bitch ", 
        "Literally polar opposite of Ronda lol, in how they deal with defeat", 
        "Although he did call RDA a pussy for no reason.  That seemed a little disrespectful especially after getting beaten by Diaz.", 
        "So is talking shit after you pulled out of the fight", 
        "I think breaking your foot is a legitimate reason to back out of a fight.", 
        "But that doesn't mean you talk shit to the guy who you pulled out from for his choice in replacement opponent. That doesn't make any sense at all.", 
        "I think the reason he did so is because Conor was pretty disrespectful to him in the lead up to the fight.  ", 
        "it's only been 1 day since his defeat.. time will tell how he deals with it.", 
        "So happy to hear he has this kind of attitude. Conor's a true champion", 
        "Nate seems really good in his past two fights. I think he would give RDA a good fight. ", 
        "I like him and Diaz as a rivalry, they both love talking shit, and at the end of the day they beat the hell out of each other. ", 
        "Being a McGregor fan, this loss was oddly a good thing. Before this loss most people, including myself, viewed him more as an entertainer and not as much as an athlete. But in an athletes world, failure is almost a guarantee in some way or another. It's a bittersweet loss but at least now when I see Conor win in the future I will know that he grew as an athlete and a fighter.  ", 
        "How Many of the haters now were on Conor's dick before the fight? Fucking casual MMA \"fans\"", 
        "At least he's not suicidal like Rowdy ", 
        "This is what has made me go from hating this man's guts to thinking he's a goddamn hero. ", 
        ">Nate I will see you again\n\nRight, because giving the dude who just dismantled you on 10 days notice a full training camp makes sense. \n\nConor should focus on FW and then try to work up through LW. He clearly has no business facing the elite of that division when he can't even beat somebody who is arguably not even in the top 5 on 10 days notice. No matter how Conor fanboys or Conors team try to spin the \"t-two weightclasses!\" nonsense as a disadvantage for Conor, it doesn't change the fact that Diaz is a natural LW who didn't even have a fucking camp. RDA-Conor should have never happened in the first place to be perfectly honest, just like Nate said. Conor is a great fighter who got given waay to much. He did nothing at LW to deserve a title shot and it showed in his recent performance.\n\nHe wasn't ready.", 
        ">the dude who just dismantled you\n\nWe watched the same fight, right? Conor was looking great, got caught, got submitted. There was no dismantling going on.", 
        "The part where the wobbled McGregor thought it would be a good idea to shoot on Nate says he was dismantled. The second giveaway was the tap.", 
        "Getting hurt to the point that Conor turned into Chad Mendes only to get subbed isn't dismantling? Fights aren't just 1 round fights you know.", 
        "He got caught and rocked with a nice straight left.  Up until then he was in control.  Dismantling my ass.  Fool.", 
        "He wasn't in control at all, did you see the punch stats? 27 for Conor, 23 for Diaz who also got a takedown. Conor came out faster at the gate because he was the fresher of the two (Diaz didn't even have a camp).\n\nThe punch stats for Round 2 tell their own story (Conor had 24 to Diaz's 70+). Conor got fucking dismantled/slapped and subbed by an unprepared Diaz. Fool.", 
        "Bullshit.  He clearly won the first round.  Idiot.", 
        "You should take your own advice. Dillashaw dismantled Barao, Holm dismantled Rousey, this is nowhere close to a dismantling.", 
        "Aldo got caught, McGregor gassed out.", 
        "Lol McGregor was stunting on him until he got caught. He didn't gas one bit.", 
        "Yes he did he even admitted it himself, did you not listen to the press conference?", 
        "I did listen to the press conference. He said he wasn't sharp. ", 
        "You obviously didn't listen, because he spoke about his energy and how he gassed.", 
        "Feel free to shoot me a link.", 
        "https://www.hookedonphonics.com/", 
        "The the way i saw it Diaz was faster and bitch slapped him around a bit before finishing him after the first solid hit. Didn't help either that he was talking shit in the ring until 30s before Diaz beat the crap out of him. \n\nBest part was Conor taunting with arms down again and again and Diaz hitting him again and again - you could see the frustration settling in.", 
        "The comments in this thread make the most sense out of everything I have read in this cancer-ridden subreddit the past few hours.", 
        "casuals man...", 
        "If you're going to own the loss at least be honest about it. You didn't go up two weights, you fought a 155er @ 170. \n\nAlso one of the men you're calling a pussy destroyed the guy who beat piss out of you last night.\n\nEdit: I know Conor fans are afraid of the truth, thus the downvotes. But the reality is, an upper-mid level 155er out-boxed Conor to the point where he dove to the ground desperately and handed Nate an easy submission.", 
        "You're right, overzealous fans can be annoying, but you're the other side of the coin and your clear dislike of Conor is apparent and gives little credibility to anything you say. ", 
        "What did I say that was false? I have nothing but respect for him, I just feel he didn't own up to the loss, here.", 
        ">\"I have nothing but respect for him\" \n\n Haha good one mate... it couldn't be any more obvious that you dislike him and are enjoying his loss. All of that is fine, but stop pretending you're not a hater. ", 
        "It's idiotic fans like you that everyone is fed up with. Go cry somewhere else\n\nhttp://www.slate.com/content/dam/slate/blogs/behold/2013/08/Jill%20Greenberg/10.jpg.CROP.original-original.jpg", 
        "I agree with you in some sense, but he went up and fought a guy who couldn't cut down to his weight class. Conor would have made 155 easily Diaz refused 160 so he clearly walks around bigger than 170. So on this night McGregor went up two classes he fought a guy who was likely heavier than 170 last night. Probably closer to 180", 
        "The only reason was because the fight booked 11 days out. Nate fights at 155 and will continue to do so.\n\nConor was meant to fight the guy who made Nate look like dogshit in their fight and RDA is nothing but a 155er.", 
        "Dude the fight took place at 170. It was a welterweight fight. He did in fact go up 2 weight classes. Nate Diaz's ability to cut weight doesn't change that fact.", 
        "Nate Diaz is a 155 fighter, your sadness does not change that", 
        "people are driving me crazy with this. Next up, we take the weight of people on fight day and say that they're really fighting at that weight.", 
        "> weight on fight day\n\nMost people would love that change, but it's not going to happen. Nate is listed on UFC.com as a light weight. Conor fought a light weight at 170. It's \"technically\" two classes, but only in name.", 
        "no I agree. I just meant that if people were going to say that Nate was heavier on fight night and that it was the equivalent of Nate being more than a 155er, it would never end.", 
        "145 to 170, regardless of how you decide to label it, is a HUGE difference in weight.", 
        "He fought at 155er at 170. It was not that huge.\n\nFor effect, get Conor to fight Rory who walks around at 200", 
        "so what? they were both at about the same weight. he didn't go up two weightclasses.\n\nthe equivalent of Nate @ 170 would be someone like Matt Brown or Hendricks.", 
        "The difference is Conor was pushing to get up there. Nate probably walks around heavier than that. ", 
        "Upper-mid? He was ranked number 5 before beating Conor and deservedly so", 
        "So just mid, then? ", 
        "In the middle of the top ten, yes. Not mid level in terms of the lightweight roster", 
        "He tapped faster than sage LOL", 
        "He basically tapped when he tried for that weak-ass takedown", 
        "Nate has fought at 170 several times before; it's not like this was uncharted territory for him.", 
        "rory destroyed him", 
        "The whole time Nate fought at 170, people were screaming at him to drop to 155.", 
        "At a severe size advantage.  Go watch Macdonald/Diaz. This was a 155 bout without the weight cut. If anything, Mcgregor has more lean mass on him than Diaz. ", 
        "Diaz went up and lost to Kim and then Rory suplexed him 3 times and made Jim realize he didn't belong in that weight class. \n\nedit: Nate not Jim.", 
        "Jim Diaz", 
        "Thanks. Typing on mobile is a pain sometimes.", 
        "Nate is a very small 170, he fights at 155 for the majority of his career.", 
        "Nate is a very small 170 and Conor is an average size 155", 
        "So Nate is am average sized 155er", 
        "I would say Conor is a small 155er, but your point still stands.\n\nI definitely think the cut would be tougher for Diaz than Conor. But that doesn't necessarily mean much.", 
        "If it was 155 he would have been looking at a different frame across the cage. It's just a fact, if Diaz had a camp and cut he would have been a different frame, if Diaz declined because he couldn't make weight he would have fought another 145 or 155er, it would have been a different frame. \n\nIt had an effect the he went with 170 lot of people seem to think it might as well have been 155, there's a difference ", 
        "I can't stand this guy, proper cunt. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Why would I be sad? Dude lost his belt", 
        "What belt? No belt was lost.", 
        "Shows how much i know about MMA hahahaha", 
        "least he's being proper about it.", 
        "Very true, upon further contemplation, he should be compared to the likes of Mother Teresa, and Ghandi", 
        "I want dude to bounce back. but he does need to clean up his striking and ground game.", 
        "I don't think he does. Did you not see how fantastic the head movement and evasion of Nate was? Add to that the bombs McGregor was actually hitting him with (that put most guys to sleep) and he kept coming. Don't play down Nate's achievement by saying Conor needs work. Conor is still an exceptional fighter. We just caught a glimpse of how fantastic Nate can be when he's motivated and healthy. Throw 500k at Nate to win vs RDA and I think he would take him in a rematch quite honestly.   ", 
        " Since when does acknowledging flaws and stating they need to be worked on for mean anything being taken away from the winner / victor? I want a fighter I'm a fan of to improve and succeed. Also;  he wasn't exceptional in this fight, his striking was sloppy when compared to Diaz (his uppercut from the hip stood out and repeatedly relying on the left), Both Diaz brothers are known for their exceptional boxing and this bout highlighted the value of strong fundamentals.", 
        "Might just be me but with him, when he says he's gonna learn from it, I don't feel like it's just bs", 
        "I feel like that too. he went up 2 weight-classes and got his ass handed too him and acknowledged it immediately; no talk of time off to \"clear his head\" etc etc. I think he'll rebound fine.", 
        "he went up 1\n", 
        "he started at 145\nwent past 155 to 170?\nthat's not 2 ?", 
        "Nate started a 155 went up to 170, is that not 1?", 
        "I'm obviously talking about McGregor aren't I ? how about you re-read my comment.", 
        "Because for al intents and purposes he fought a guy that's 1 weight class above him, which is why he realistically went up 1 weight class, he did not fight a WW.", 
        "> clean up his striking\n\nhe needs to up the groundgame, striking is fine", 
        "He shot on Diaz because he got rocked so no it's not. He acknowledged in his post fight that he expected Diaz to go down with strikes that would have dropped men at feather and knows better now so even he knows changes need to be made. I'm not saying something he hasn't already.", 
        "> strikes that would have dropped men \n\nHe should refrain from the spinning shit", 
        "Sorry mcgregor your mind games dont work on nate. Thats how you won most of your fights...the mental edge but ummm after this fight i doubt that would work on dos anjos or frankie.", 
        "There is a good to fair chance Conor would light Edgar up from a distance. He has a huge size advantage.", 
        "Yeh he does have that advantage.\n\nIn my opinion his mental game does more damage. If edgar can do what nate did and not let it fuck with him he might be alright.\n\nEither way who ever mcgreggor fights next is gonna be interesting\n", 
        "Frankie was the LW champ, I'm pretty sure Connor's size won't be an issue.", 
        "We will have to wait and see. Only a few months now.", 
        "Word. I feel a sense of joy (because he beat up my hero, Aldo) and sadness, because the train that he worked so hard to build has been derailed to some degree. Respect to Diaz. Respect to McGregor.", 
        "Wow. I wasn't sure how he would handle a loss, the way he's handled himself is very impressive. He's got a new fan in me.", 
        "Conor did not move up 2 weights. 170 pound fighters weight 185-200lbs, not 168lbs. Joe Rogan said it best when he said this was a fight where two 155ers fought without cutting weight.\n\nAs for his future, I think he'll fight Aldo, because everyone seems to be overlooking the fact that Connor simply doesn't have good jiu-jitsu and non-existing wrestling. Two things [Edgar excels at.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEQZEMMjxVE)", 
        "Demian Maia doesn't cut weight to make 170, so you're telling me he's not a welterweight? The fight would of been different at 155", 
        "No it wouldn't have. Both fighters with a full camp the fight would have been the same. Conor has power to knock out feather weight fighters,  and I  suspect that he doesn't have the knockout power to truly compete above FW. Nate's chin is the same regardless of weight class. Conor came out looking to finish him early and couldn't do it,  despite weighing 168 at weigh ins. \n\nNate essentially pulled a Conor on Conor. He used his length to his advantage and once Conor was gassed he went for the kill. He's a much better pure boxer than Conor isand the end of round 2 showed that. Conor has never had to go deep into a fight,  but Nate had made a living going the distance in his fights. The weight would have been different,  but the outcome the same. ", 
        "Absolutely, but the issue against Edgar (for Edgar) is that there is a good to fair chance he gets knocked out trying to get inside of Conor's reach. It is a very different fight than this one.", 
        "I really like this sociopath. ", 
        "Irrelevant comment: Weird decision to go with a Getty Images photo.", 
        "Are the people talking about his humility in defeat and sportsmanship reading the same thing I am?\n\n\"Two weight classes up\" is a cop out - he fought a guy who fights at the weight he want to move up to and neither cut weight. M", 
        "ppl are reading what they want so it will conform to the image they have of him.", 
        "I was always interested to see what would happen if he lost on the biggest stage, whether he'd crumble under the weight of his broken promises. \n\nBut holy shit, this is motivating as fuck. ", 
        "He looked like he had the same reaction as someone who's just lost a five a side match. It's much easier to weather a loss in other sports, but he acts like it was a grappling comp or something, not a massive fight and a pretty embarrassing loss", 
        "I thought so as well. What a difference between him and Rousey, if she had come out the same way I would have more respect for her.", 
        "He's handling this much better than I thought he would, or than most of us would if in a similar circumstance. I was kind of worried this might break him, but it seems to have done just the opposite, and that's very admirable.\n\nNot every at-bat is a home-run, and sometimes you strike out. But it doesn't sound like he's done swinging. \n\nAs an aside, it's awfully interesting how keen Ronda seems about getting back into the cage now that she's got a more favorable matchup.", 
        "What a guy ", 
        "gotta feeling he's gonna get his ass whooped many more times", 
        "Its a shame he couldnt get all of that out at the press conference and instead just sat there making excuses while claiming to not make excuses. It would have meant a lot more calling out a \"twitter pussy\" if he werent doing it on his instagram. ", 
        "If the press conference was today hed probably have said all this, i highly doubt he was thinking straight last night", 
        "I feel like he was thinking straight for the first time in a long time. \"Wow, I bit off way more than I could chew, and got my ass handed to me for it. I should shut my mouth.\"\n\n\nThen ido and artem and him went out and talked about how great they all are, played some touch noodle, and cocky mcgregor is back. But either way, unless Diaz isnt in attendance, regardless of the date, Mcgregor has no business acting like the tough guy at any conference any more. ", 
        "'I will take this loss like a man (but everyone remember I stepped up two weight classes).", 
        "He says he takes his defeat like a man but makes excuses about the weight class and trys to brag about his popularity and money to feel less insecure \n\nDouche ", 
        "Lost so much respect for Aldo thought he was better than that shit", 
        "I dont think it comes from him personally because it really doesnt sound like him. Much more likely that his team is trying to secure the rematch by talking shit and selling wolf tickets. Aldo was champ for so long he never had to do that.", 
        "Yeah there's no way Aldo would use the word \"ya\". Either way though shame on him for letting anyone post that as him. Lost respect too.", 
        "My noob take....\n\nConor got me into the sport. I loved his mouth and how he hyped events. I knew he didn't believe half the shit coming out of his mouth but i loved it. Watching his words get shoved down his throat last night was a tough pill to swallow. As a noob i will give my take on a lot of the post fight reaction...\n\n-Hats off to Diaz. Conor said it right off the get go. There are a lot of pussies in this game and Nate is not one of them. A lot of the shots Diaz ate in the first round would of put away a lot of fighters in opinion. Exp. at 145.\n\n-Diaz did say in the post fight interview that him training two hours a day even not being in camp is light for him. So saying he was out of shape I wouldn't buy. Like i said I am a noob but i think there are almost some pro's to not having a long full camp. But hats off to the guy for coming in there and doing what he did.\n\n-Conor is good for the sport. If you want to hate on the bandwagon folks like myself for flooding the UFC then that your choice. If you would rather have the UFC circle a small group then fine. But i think its great when a fighter can bring in a huge new audience. It's more fun having more people know about the game whether they know what there talking about or not. Getting this sport to the point where a large majority of the people are excited and talking about upcoming fights is awesome.\n\n-Conor got caught (like Aldo). People keep talking about how Nate's BJJ won it for him but i respectfully disagree. Conor got hit with a clean shot that ended the fight. It just dragged on a little longer (30 seconds) where he eventually tapped. I don't think Nate's BJJ expertise won that fight for him. Diaz reach was punishing Conor. It seemed like every solid shot Mcgregor would land Nate would be right there with a counter. \n\nThe guy i was rooting for lost. Still had a great time watching it. I have become a fan of this sport when Conor started talking all that shit to Aldo for there first scheduled fight. Since then i have been following it non-stop. Have a lot of other fighters I like now too. Conor is still my favorite and I think he handled the loss like a champion. Can't wait to learn the sport more and I hope this really accelerates things for the UFC since Boxing entertainment value is dying. \n\nJust my 2 cents. ", 
        "Nate was in great shape, Joe mentioned that Nate was training for a triathlon before he accepted this fight. The biggest advantage for Nate is that he is used to fighting guys shorter than him, he has done it the entire time he has fought at 155. Conor doesn't fight guys taller than him, so it was a big change and he learned that he will have to bring in bigger guys to fight with if he wants to do it again.  ", 
        "noob 2 cents, worth 1 cent.", 
        "I agree with everything you said except for the fact that Conor was caught. He was not caught. He was worn down by superior striking and Nate's last few shots were nails in the coffin, along with the final submission. Aldo was legitimately caught by a single shot that was admittedly well timed.", 
        "Large egos always die a drawn out and obnoxious death. Let it go Conor, you are just another person.", 
        "This is not humility    ", 
        "Little mouthy twat.", 
        "it's astonishing how many comments there are about how this wasn't a WW fight. Amazing how people can convince themselves they know how weight cutting works, when it is obvious they know nothing about it. \n\nIf you think the fight would of been exactly the same if they both weighed in at 155, you have know idea how weight cutting works and really shouldn't be commenting about it. Nate was clearly the bigger man, and had 14 pounds on Conor fight night. \n\nConor is humble in defeat, yet haters still got to try and tear him down. This fight was awesome anyway you look at it. If you can't enjoy this fight, you shouldn't be watching MMA.\n\nEdit: typo", 
        "> yet haters still got to try and tear him down\n\nits not him that's annoying, just his fanbase", 
        "Got a source for the 145lb difference on fight night?", 
        "well said well said. most of these people are couch haters, only thing they have in life is to hate on other people that are greater then them because they are jealous. this fight was awesome all around both men put on a fight. ", 
        "thank you for having some common sense", 
        "nice to hear, don't think many people realise Nate actually cut weight for the fight, regardless a great performance on 11 days notice", 
        "What a stark contrast to how Ronda handled her loss. ", 
        "How is Dos Anjos \"a pussy\" for not fighting with a medicine ball for a foot? How is Aldo \"a pussy\" for not fighting a heavy opponent without a full camp on a week's notice? What happened to the \"humble in victory/humble in defeat\" which was obviously BS anyway? I'm so glad this guy got exposed. Prick.", 
        "Its because they didn't step up when they could have.\nBut instead choose to bitch about him on Twitter that's what makes them pussies. ", 
        "Dos Anjos did no such thing. And Aldo is merely asking for a rematch at 145. ", 
        "doesn't matter what dos anjos excuse is, he pulled out 11 days before the fight he can't talk.\n\nAldo on the other hand called him a pussy after being offered the fight and not accepting him self.\n", 
        "Excuse? Anjo's friggin foot is broken. Lolol You couldn't take the trash out on a foot like that. There is a vast difference between excuse in Conor's context and excuse as in a legitimate reason to be excused. To call someone a pussy for not taking a title defense on that caliber of injury is nonsensical.\n\nAldo is just keeping pace with the verbal sparring Conor starts time and time again. Only with them it seems to be urging towards a typical stalwart debate over time, weight and entitlement. Not much unlike Rousey/Cyborg or most dream boxing matches. My question has been, if 9 or 10 out of 10 other champs get an instant rematch, especially after what could easily have been a fluke victory. Why was Aldo, after ten years, the exception? And why would he not be the first man in even now? Cain got two. Rousey's getting one. Silva got one. Wiedman's getting one. How is the case for Aldo/MacGregor 1 and 2 different than, say Velasquez/Dos Santos 1 and 2? ", 
        "instant rematches are shit.\n\nit had to stop and has to start some where. ", 
        "I actually totally agree. I more or less despise them. So it's not out of love for the idea that I support Aldo here.  But fact is they haven't stopped. Weidman/Rockhold 2. If Rousey doesn't step up for 200 we'll likely see Holm/Tate 2. They skipped out on Aldo because it worked perfectly for the Conor narrative. It's worked booking.", 
        "Money talks.\nAlso Aldo is notorious for pulling out on fights last min and does pretty much nothing to promote fights.\nIt's just bad business not fair but he needs to learn how to do business instead of crying about it UFC will take the boxing route sooner than later.\n\nPeople who can sell a fight will make money and will get the preference.  ", 
        "Fair point. My issue as a staunch conservative fan of the sport is that this ideal completely overlooks the competitive heirarchy of the ranking system. In my mind, instant rematches should be next to never. And people leaping weight classes for multiple title shots and million dollar paydays because they're \"hot and hard to deny\" is heresy. ", 
        "champs getting a title shot at next weight class champ is not new and its a legit thing.\ni have no issues with it as long as the title is defended atleast once.\nand if RDA hadn't pulled out and connor beat him this whole argument would be moot. ", 
        "Big respect,  I was team aldo but McGregor is a classy competitor and I'm happy he's not taking this loss too hard.  Love him or hate him you should respect a true fighter. ", 
        "Hopefully now he knows he can't just keep head there at WW. Getting hit flushed by a big dude like Nate was always going to be his downfall. Hubris will kill you in this sport. \n\nGo back down to 145, give Frankie his shot, if he defends it, then maybe he can line up an end of the year fight with whoever the LW champion is. \n\nI hope to fuck this loss forces him and his camp to knock WW on the head as he looked lethargic in the second round. \n\nCongrats to Nate. Delighted he finally got his well deserved payday. I'll be rooting for him should he get the next shot at RDA. \n\nP.S hopefully the bandwagon jumpers piss off now and stop giving McGregor fans a shitty rep. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You're assuming Frankie doesn't beat him to a pulp. I think Frankie beats him to a pulp.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Fair enough.", 
        "Damnit Conor. *You're", 
        "Is that a fake AP? lol", 
        "I'm curious what type of watch it is... It's HUGE haha", 
        "All this talk of jumping two weight classes and fighting at 170 is so disingenuous. It's bullshit. Both he and Nate are 155'ers who fought without a weight cut. He he was fighting a true 170 pounder without a weight cut, his opponent would have been weighing in around 190.", 
        "Nate cut weight, weighed 182 in the cage ", 
        "Big supporter of Mcgregor, support him win or lose. Not a fan of the money talk but I honestly think he is taking a page from the mayweather camp. \n\nonly mistake with this is the \"your tired...\" you're*\n", 
        "I hope this grammar check doesn't get buried ", 
        "I'd bet that the odds are pretty low for him to show up on a television talk show crying about the loss and admitting he contemplated suicide after then. ", 
        "The class he showed after the fight kind of shocked me. I didn't expect it and I don't think I've ever seen such a respectable afterfight loss interview. I think I'm becoming a fan of this guy.", 
        "Probably should stay at 145 before toying with anymore ideas of jumping up in weight. The \"pussy\" Dos Anjos would have likely taken Conor's head off if that match were to happen. \n\nLooks like the biggest winner in all of this may just be Frankie Edgar. Can't see Aldo getting the fight after turning down the opportunity to fight Conor again. ", 
        "As Some one mentioned.\nDos anjos is must smaller and has lesser reach than conor fight would have been completely different. \nHighly doubt Dos anjos could have taken the hits connor landed on Nate those were some solid bombs and at that weight class would have dropped or finished anyone who's name don't end with Diaz.\n\nStyles make fights. ", 
        "Ronda should hire Conor as her \"What to do after i lose\" manager.", 
        "So much for that humble pie I was hoping for.", 
        "Damage control AF. ", 
        "Haha i can't help but like the guy to be honest. ", 
        "Badass. Exactly what I was expecting to see from a defeated Conor, glad he came through", 
        "You cant help but admire the confidence in this guy. You want to hate him, but some of the shit he's done is fucking hilarious", 
        "I still love Conor. And the Diaz brothers are also favourites of mine. They are exciting. Just about the only fighters who would agree to super fights. Everyone else is way to safe.  \n\nI hate that the crowd booed him after he lost. Risks dont always pay off but having the balls to do that should be applauded.\n\nAnd what Aldo did on twitter was disgusting. When you get knocked dead you can not really call someone a pussy.", 
        "I really think he handled this loss like a man.  His post fight conference comments were nothing but respectful, he didn't make excuses, and he seemed to have a pretty realistic recollection of how the fight went. \n\nHe earned some cred in my book. \n\nI would have liked to see him keep up the pace he set in the first round, but it was just too much.  But I would rather see someone work to finish and gas put than see someone jab their way to a decision. \n\nI think he had it right... He hit Nate with some very hard shots.  Shots that would have dropped most people.  Nate just has a great chin.  \n\nI don't see a rematch going any differently.  The fight went the way he needed it to go.  Nate was having a hard time hitting him, and he was landing clean power shots. ...and it wasn't enough.  I don't see that changing in the future.  I could be wrong though. ", 
        "The first round mcgregor missed a bunch. The second round he did good. this fight showed mcgregor doesnt have a ground game and doesnt do very well fighting on the inside and he counts way too much on that left hand.", 
        "I don't know about that.  I'm not sure that we can judge his ground game on this.  He was just exhausted at that point.  And Diaz is solid on the ground even when his opponent has full energy. \n\nI think if anything suspect came out of this, it's his cardio.  When he was fresh, he was working Diaz over.  His headwork and footwork were good.  He wasn't getting hit too much, and he was landing big. \n\nBut if you can last 2 rounds for a 5 round fight, you have troubles.  And I agree that he relies heavily on that left hand, but I don't really have a problem with that.  Watching him land that left hand is pretty damn fun.  Hendo built his whole career around the H bomb... But you have to be able to throw it for 5 rounds.  Even if he slows his frequency and pace after the first round...  He still needs to be able to stand in there and trade.  The desperate takedown against a guy that is *clearly* superior on the ground, is \"looking for an exit\". ", 
        "\"I'll take this loss like a man... by talking even more shit about everyone else.\"", 
        "The reason he spoke shit vs aldo and dos anjos is they fired shots at him over twitter, hardly him just picking those 2 to talk smack about", 
        "Connor was way too cocky this fight. Hands at his side and clearly no respect for Nates striking. Could have been a different story if he took it seriously.  ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He's normally good at it though. My man needs to develop some better defense for when the old juke and slip isn't cutting it with an elite striker. His grappling didn't look nearly as awful as  everyone says it is. Until he was rocked he was doing well in the grappling exhanges.", 
        "Nothing better than seeing a cocky sonofabitch get knocked around and chocked out :)", 
        "Fucking right on, ready for your next fight CMac", 
        "Seriously Conor is not Rousey, he has the right mindset and this is obviously the only way he could handle his defeat, he isn't gona cry and talks about babies, he basically says the same type of thing a fighter would say after their losses(eg: Holly from the same night) It is expected of him, no need to overpraise him like a saint as the Conor fans do.\n\nWhat Aldo said on facebook was obviously some classless cheap ass shot (As an Aldo fan I am totally disappointed in that) However let's not forget how much shits Conor had given Aldo in the past, he was the reigning champ for a decade always respected his opponents, then Conor came in and disrespected him for such a long time, threw darts at his picture, took his belt, called him a pussy etc.\n\nOf course personally, as an mma fans and able to understand English I know 100% that is Conor's act for the business, hyping up the fight and getting the number as big as it can be. It was great from him for the numbers, but at the same time, it also wasn't too hard to understand that if Aldo still take it personal. He was the one on the bad receiving end of the whole Conor hype train, got his name and title destroyed. Yes, Conor was respectful right after the win, but still whenever he goes on his \"hype up for ppv\" mode, he still trash talks about bouncing Aldo's head like a basketball etc. Also with how his casual fans suck in every word Conor's show personality says like gospel and goes out disrespecting one of the GOAT. Plus the cultural and language barrier, I wouldn't be surprise if Aldo doesn't understand how Conor is as a fighter and take it personally. All Aldo understand is probably off by a translator, whenever Conor hype up his next fight, he mentions something about Aldo(Mostly not nice) and that might be how Aldo misunderstands him as a true asshole, then goes on straight being classless towards Conor's defeat. (Aldo probably doesn't even know what Conor says after his win on him)", 
        "i just don't get what people find inspirational about conor's attitude. i admire his work ethic and skills, but the shit he says (including what he said in this instagram quote) sounds so generic, forced and fake. everyone is praising him for the way he is handling defeat, yet the majority of ufc fighters say the same shit after a loss. ", 
        "u have to respect him for saying that", 
        "Love him or hate him. It's hard not to respect him.", 
        "I did not think I could respect Conor more as a fighter until I read this.", 
        "Conor is really taking this loss well. Never expected him to be such a great sport after a loss.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "1mil? More like 23mil", 
        "i think he made north of 10 mil", 
        "He's intimated that, but unless they broke records for ppv buys for this event he didn't make close to that.", 
        "it's called pity", 
        "Pity? Last time I checked he's probably worth more than you and both of the brothers who's dicks you suck. There's no need or room for pity.", 
        "He can be worth more, but he can't beat their ass ;)", 
        "no, its call humility dude, jesus", 
        "If McGregor only had some ", 
        "Yeah, like when he beat mendes to win the interim title and went and hugged him, held his hand up, called him a \"legend\" in interviews, or maybe when he beat aldo in 13 seconds and went over and comforted him after the fight and said he wished the fight went longer because aldo deserved better than that. Or maybe now when he flat out lost and made absolutely no excused and owned up to every mistake and gave nate the props he deserved. But no yeah, no humility in conor", 
        "Remember how much shit talking he did to Aldo? He shat him for a full year. Shat on his accomplishments, his country, his skills, everything. So after all that, if you go comfort a guy after winning, that's humility? McGregor shits on people for not making as much money as him, he told black brazilians that they would be his slaves if it was a 100 years earlier, how he's the p4p best fighter. Ya super humble. \nAnd he gave props to nate? What props? Did you watch the interviews? All he has said so far is that he \"took a chance\" when it's nate who only had 10 days to prepare and was the underdog, and that he was \"inefficient\". He's making excuses for himself and he's not shit talking cause he lost. Get off McGregor's nuts and think for yourself ", 
        "> Remember how much shit talking he did to Aldo? He shat him for a full year. Shat on his accomplishments, his country, his skills, everything. So after all that, if you go comfort a guy after winning, that's humility\n\nyeah, thats called selling a fight, and how did he shit on his accomplishments? All he did was say in a variety of creative ways that he would beat Aldo\n\n> how he's the p4p best fighter.\n\nwait who said he was?\n\n> And he gave props to nate? What props? Did you watch the interviews? All he has said so far is that he \"took a chance\" when it's nate who only had 10 days to prepare and was the underdog, and that he was \"inefficient\". He's making excuses for himself\n\nexcuses? That was a different way of saying nate paced himself and had good cardio while he made the mistake and \"blew his load\" (his words not mine) and gassed out. Thats not an excuse, thats him analyzing what went wrong. He also said that he does like nate and the diaz brothers, in the octagon you could see him and nate speaking to eachother and hugging eachother, conor and his corner went over to nate's and they all exchanged words and hugs. Are you blind or something? there was nothing but respect between both sides after that fight\n\n> Get off McGregor's nuts and think for yourself \n\nlol", 
        "So being a douche is ok when the douchiness is beneficial to something you like? \"Trying to sell a fight\" excuse doesn't give you immunity from being an asshole. He's insulting others and putting them down for his own benefit-to look good and make a lot of money.\n\nWho said he was the p4p best? McGregor himself claimed he was\n\nYou're not even answering my question. Your original point was that McGregor is humble. When the fuck was he ever humble? Please send me a video link of McGregor claiming that Nate was the better fighter. He hugged nate afterwards? So all that shit talking about Nate making no money, working a side job, punching his hand during standoffs, is all nullified because of a hug? ", 
        "First off, trash talk is slowly becoming a requirement in the UFC. Did you see the UFC Unstoppable press conference? Do you also hate DC and JBJ and Joanna and Ghadela and Rockhold and Weidman and Faber and Cruz and khabib and ferguson because they also shit talked eachother to generate hype? You know what happens when you dont hype or sell fights? You're mighty mouse, one of the most dominant champs in UFC history and no one but the hardcores even notices. I agree this camp, conor had a shitty attitude in regards to selling the fight but to say the guy isnt humble is unfair", 
        "If you actually watch some of the other fighter's trash talk, they trash talk about other's fighting styles and how they're gonna beat each other. You know what McGregor talks about? He talks about how much money he has and makes fun of people for not making as much as him. This is the guy who harps on his working class roots and how the only thing he had in his life was fighting. This guy was living off welfare living in his dad's basement before the UFC. Now all of a sudden he starts making money and he's better than everyone? Trash talk is not a requirement in anything. GSP was the biggest draw in UFC and that's guy who's humble. \nA person shit talking others and putting them down for his own benefit (selling fights) is not someone you consider humble. ", 
        "\"Made absolutely no excuses\"\nIt's hard to make excuses when you get rolled by a guy who had 10days notice.\n \nHim and Dana have both brought up the jumped \"2 weight classes\" thing too.\n\nBut it was basically a LW fight without the weight cut.", 
        "> by a guy who had 10days notice\n\na guy who had 10 days notice who had already been in training and runs triathlons for fun. Nate showed up in shape dude. And even if it was a LW fight with no weight cut, to go from fighting guys who are probably 150-160 inside the cage to a guy in nate who to be honest, probably was pushing 180, it makes a huge fucking difference\n", 
        "Training for a marathon is not the same as training for a fight. Also, Diaz wasn't training for a marathon, he straight up said he was on vacation in Mexico when he got the call to fight.\n\n>And even if it was a LW fight with no weight cut, to go from fighting guys who are probably 150-160 inside the cage to a guy in nate who to be honest, probably was pushing 180, it makes a huge fucking difference\n\nBut Conor was the one who said weight makes no difference to him and that he'll fight anyone?", 
        "> Conor was the one who said weight makes no difference to him and that he'll fight anyone?\n\nyeah he'll fight anyone, that doesnt mean he isnt at a disadvantage, fighting and knocking out bigger guys is harder", 
        "Conor's walking weight is ~175 and they fought at the same weight class, don't give me that bullshit. It just shows that Conor has to cut all the way down 145 to be able to knock guys out like he's used to.", 
        "Yes but Conor walks around 175, Nate walks around 180.\nNot so different now is it?\n\nAlso that's no training camp for sparring and preparation, running marathons only works your conditioning and endurance but not your timing and sharpening.\n\nIMO Nate Diaz is just the better fighter, he beats McGregor in every area barring flashy tricks.", 
        "its a difference because conors left hand knocks people out who hes 20lbs bigger than, pit him against someone his size and that left cross was almost a non factor, nate weathered the storm, then took conor out. Thats why nate being 180 instead of 160 makes a difference. I dont think nate is THAT much better than conor, conor was just a jackass and kept his hands down. This was alot like holm rousey where conor made nate look WAY better than i believe he actually due to how poorly he defending himself against very basic boxing combos", 
        "My point is McGregor has been a bully at FW this whole time so i agree with you about the left hand being diminshed.\n\nHe faces someone slightly bigger than him (Reach/height) and he panics.\nAnd Conor did not keep his hands down just for this fight, he has his hands down nearly EVERY fight, it's his style.\nI would think it's also some form of takedown defense because Anderson Silva does a similar thing.\n\nThe difference between Rousey-Holm and Diaz-McGregor is that Rousey's boxing is complete shit, Nate was actually facing a good boxer but he proved to be the more elite boxer.\n\n\n", 
        "Then he shouldn't have taken the fight", 
        "It was ill advised, yes, but he wanted a challenge, you gotta respect him for being down to fight anyone anywhere anytime any weight", 
        "Or how about claiming he is # 1-9 best fighter or how about making fun of Nate for teaching kids jiu jitsu. Or how about how he brags about the money he has every chance he gets.", 
        "I didnt like the ju jitsu jab, agreed, but if you watch enough of conor behind the scenes, you'd know that was him acting out of character", 
        "why does he get a free pass for everything he says. ", 
        "he doesnt, the shit was uncalled for", 
        "Or he's just an asshole. ", 
        "> Everyone who brings him up in my life gets the same response \" shut the fuck up \" \n\nerr...you seem like a pleasant person", 
        "Not super into MMA but from what I've seen this guy is a motherfucking baller", 
        "That is how a man responds. He lost, he offers no excuses. He manned up and fought at 170 on 11 days notice. Fuck all the stupid haters. ", 
        "> no excuses\n\nwhat about that energy talk?", 
        "He's got nothing but excuses. He was in training camp for a fight yesterday. Nate was on vacation 11 days ago, took a fight with no time for a camp and beat that ass.\n\nUntil he says, Nate is a better fighter and beat my ass, everything he says is excuses.\n ", 
        "What excuses did he make? ", 
        "Jumping 2 Weight classes to fight a LW, energy efficiency, short notice, which is the bullshitiest one oal. As soon as he says Nate beat my ass and was the better fighter I'll give him credit for humility.", 
        "Oh god, he is so fucking full of him self. What a joke. ", 
        "Agree with him, and i like his attitude, but it was against a lw going up a class.", 
        "But do we still get the McGregor v Dos Anjos super fight?", 
        "I'd love to see these two face off at 155", 
        "At 155, in shape and with camp Nate, meh, same result, maybe Nate gets hit less.", 
        "Has the putout for Nate and Connor been announced?     \nConnor lost after running his mouth, but it still remains that he followed through. No other belt holding champion talks about fights outside their class AND followed through. Mad respect for that.      \nI was so surprised at the post-match humility from the top two MMA trash talkers. This sport really does bring out the best in fighters overall than any other sport.  ", 
        "> I was so surprised at the post-match humility from the top two MMA trash talkers. This sport really does bring out the best in fighters overall than any other sport.\n\nBragging about being rich, insinuating that you're going to go down in history, and calling two guys pussys on the internet.  What a saint.", 
        "My comment was toward the fighters that showed up as opposed to your comment which addresses the fighters that didn't show up but are still talking trash. ", 
        "Conor McGregor showed up to the fight and is still a trash talking, narcissistic asshole.", 
        "> I was so surprised at the post-match humility from the top two MMA trash talkers. This sport really does bring out the best in fighters overall than any other sport.\n\nBoth these guys are always humble about their opponents post fight. It wasn't surprising at all.", 
        "*you're", 
        "Nobody is mentioning the Joe Rogan touch of death here...", 
        "Why is hisnhand so big?!", 
        "To make Trump jealous", 
        "[This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uB1D9wWxd2w) needs to be McGregors walkout song on his comeback", 
        "What's happening here? I came here form the front page. Somebody ELI5.", 
        "Extremely hyped UFC fighter Conor Mcgregor lost to underdog Nate Diaz last night", 
        "*you're", 
        "I hate so much about this guy, but damn he is an inspiration. ", 
        "Fight clip for the lazy??", 
        "i used to hate him, but i've grown to love him.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I feel like fans cant really love a fighter until he loses. I'm like that. ", 
        "Is that how he normally walks?", 
        "I love that when I read McGregor's statement, it's in his voice. ", 
        "Tots respect", 
        "What a pussy,  He can't take a loss like a man.  Fucking loser.  There goes half of your fans and half of your money you fucking moron.", 
        "Also I forgot to mention They both were at a more natural weight class as Nate fights mostly at 155 so he actually spared Mcgregor a weight cut so he (Conor) should have been fresh as fuck after this fight camp", 
        "I like playing the what if game sometimes.\n\nWhat if this was Mayweather the morning after losing a fight? Would everyone be applauding him and praise him after posting something like this?", 
        "True king!", 
        "It's interesting that he says \"still talking multi 7's\" when he was bragging that he would be making easily over 10mil.  That would be 8 figures... I think he knows his fight value is gonna be going down a bit so now he's trying to slip that in there like nothings changed.  Still a ton of money, but he must of had a great proof reader to suggest he slips that in there!", 
        "I believe he meant show money, which I'm unsure if the loss will affect this on his next fight. This would require a contract negotiation, I'd assume. ", 
        "Came here from front of All.\n\nWtf is up with his hand??", 
        "What if, Diaz beats Lawler and becomes the WW  champ then McGregor beats RDA and then we see Diaz vs McGregor 2 . wow", 
        "Wouldn't have expected anything less really. Although I'd wonder if he still has the same level of trash talk in his next fight. To be honest I think this is good for him. He had to lose eventually and he did so at a new weight class on short notice. Still has a dozen eggs on his face, but shit happens I guess.", 
        "While he did fail, how he is going to comeback gets even more exciting!! ", 
        "How hard is it gonna be for McGregor to make 145 again? ", 
        "Dana better make sure that Conor fights Jose instead of Edgar. Not only is it the better matchup for Conor, it will generate more fan interest. Meanwhile, convince Nate to be like 'everybody' and roid up to fight Dos Anjos. Thus setting up a Mcgregor/Diaz 2 for the LW belt, and the biggest fight in the history of MMA.", 
        "Yep took his bitch slaps like a man https://youtu.be/NVnHfA8n1ZA", 
        "[removed]", 
        "The richest guy in MMA, yet he still steals his photo's from Getty rather than pay for them.", 
        "Lol, well, that humbleness sure lasted long.", 
        "Am I the only one that still wants to see Lawlor wipe the floor with him?\n", 
        "Nopers!", 
        "He kinda saved it, but for a second there he was going full Lebron post Mavs finals, with the whole \"your life sucks and im rich\" schtick", 
        "Conor has a huge battle ahead before he can say anything again.\nAldo is the next match for sure, and I really don't think Aldo will be the same as last time. The aura of invincibility is gone for Conor, and Aldo will do everything to kill Conor once and for all. \n\nI really hope this doesn't happen because if Conor loses to Aldo, his legend will pretty much be over. Yet Aldo is a dangerous man, even to a bigger guy like Conor.\n\nWhat's for sure is the mental edge of Conor is gone against Aldo next time. It will be interesting.\n\nAnd I can't see Conor against a top lightweight man this year again. ", 
        "You'd think he'd be able to afford a non-watermarked copy of that image with all of those fat cheques that he gets.", 
        "It's lit", 
        "You know it's bullshit when he says diaz has a soft frame. Say what you want about the diaz brothers but there is nothing about them that's soft.", 
        "\"I'm humble in defeat\" suure. Dude if nate did him that well, dos anjos woulda put him in butcher paper", 
        ">I'll take this loss like a man.\n\n>If another champion goes up 2 weights let me know.\n\nsays he's gonna take the loss like a man, goes on to make excuses in the same line", 
        "How is that an excuse? Do you understand English?", 
        "He says he's gonna take the loss like a man but then goes on to try and justify the loss by crying that he went up 2 weights", 
        "He didn't try to justify the loss, you're misinterpreting it.", 
        "How is it meant to be interpreted?", 
        "He's stating a fact. He didn't say he lost the fight because he moved up 2 weight classes. He *is* the only champion in history to move up 2 weight classes for a fight.", 
        "Not really an achievement if you lose", 
        "Didn't learn a thing.\n\nI hope he fights at 170 again, except against an actual WW.  Apparently getting the message beat into him last night didn't do it for him.  ", 
        "If he fights Lawler or Rory,  I think he might actually die in the cage. ", 
        "lol @ Conor being \"humble in defeat\"", 
        "That's kind of far from humble lol but he always said he is humble in victory or defeat.. I guess his definition of humble it's a bit twisted lol ", 
        "God i love this man.", 
        "How is he going to call someone who broke their foot a pussy. Awesome guy, even at a lost he's hyping up the next fight", 
        "Nate is a LW and have the same weight as you stop pretending you fought Golias", 
        "With a full camp, Diaz would make a mess of McGregor. It's what we in the game call a clinic. ", 
        "I fuckin love McGregor. I know this sub is hating on him right now but I can't help but like the guy.. ", 
        "Fuck yeah man. Champion attitude. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Yes he did lol.", 
        "But he did. He was 168 at the weigh in. That is moving up 2 weight classes and Nate moved up one", 
        "No.\n\nIt was a LW fight without the weight cut.", 
        "So he effectively went up one weight class, relative to the guy he was fighting. Which happens to be his natural weightclass. ", 
        "And how much does he weigh on fight night when he makes 145lbs?", 
        "How so?", 
        "Because some MMA fighters gimmick the weigh-in. They weren't \"moving up\" for this fight, they just weren't cutting as much weight as they normally do to make the lower weight classes.\n\nWhat a fighter steps in the ring at on fight night is their real weight class. It's really time the athletic commissions started making guys fight closer to their real levels.", 
        "But there is more to it than just adding and cutting weight. If you fight at 155 and walk around at 175 to cut 20 lbs you need to do a lot of cardio which improves conditioning. If you don't need to cut you need to stay away from the cardio to keep the weight up which affects conditioning. ", 
        "If you don't need to cut, then you don't gimmick your fluid levels in the last week to make weight. They aren't losing weight, it's just manipulation of fluids.", 
        "Technically he did. You can say this was what a light weight fight would have been without the cutting to make the weigh ins, but at the end of the day, this was a fight in the WW division, and Conor's last fight was in the FW division. By definition, he moved up two weight classes, though a fight at lightweight would've been the same thing.", 
        "I'm sorry you're a retarded mcgregor fanboy, it was a 155 fight without a cut.\n", 
        "I actually voted for Nate Diaz to win, and I got my wish lol. I just don't like people trying to kick a guy while he's down, I think it's pussy shit.", 
        "He's spinning facts like a coward. All of a sudden he and his nuthuggers ignore the reality of weight cuts.", 
        "\"Nate I will see you again\"\n\nYou sure you want that?", 
        "Why wouldn't he? He was winning until he gassed? ", 
        "100% of fighter who enter the ring are winning until something bad happens.", 
        "He got rocked and dismantled. Conor gave everything he had and crumbled. He quit too, after mocking others for quitting. \n\n\nQuitters gonna quit, cultists gonna cult.", 
        "Haters gonna hate.", 
        "This is true, and it's a good day to do it after seeing the guy quit in there.", 
        ">Says the nerd from behind his laptop screen.\n\nYou would have done better i'm sure, with 3 or 4 extra chins on call should one fail you.\n\nHow could you possibly know when is the appropriate time to tap against a world class submission artist? If the choke is locked in and you know it...TAP. There's no reason to get brain damage.\n\n", 
        "Then perhaps the guy should not go on multiple interviews and private conversations saying only quitters tap. He is a qutiter by his own definition.", 
        "Find me one video where he says those exact words. Go ahead.\n\nYou fucking can't. \n\nWhy you are so keen to denounce another human being with lies and bullshit is beyond me, but please refrain.", 
        "> Why you are so keen to denounce another human being with lies and bullshit is beyond me, but please refrain.\n\nI am not Conor McGregor so don't talk to me like i am.\n\n\nHe has said those exact words, multiple times. Go find the videos yourself. They were posted multiple times today. I am not your servitor and i do not care about you choosing ignorance before speaking.", 
        "You sir, are the one who chose ignorance. Calling out cage-fighters as pussies on the internet, it's pathetic. ", 
        "So does tapping = quitting now?", 
        "According to McGregor, yes.", 
        "I don't think he quit at all. He needed to get out of that round and his best shot was trying to slow the pace on the ground. ", 
        "By his own words, he quit. ", 
        "Elaborate?", 
        "By his own words, he became a \"panic wrestler\" .", 
        "He says a KO is the only true stoppage, and that you are a quitter if not. He said he would never tap again after Joe Duffy wrecked him, that only quitters do that.", 
        "McGregor wasn't gonna win if it would have gone further than the first. He was already tired. It was quite obvious.", 
        "Yep, once Diaz weathered the storm COnors only hope was a TKO from that cut if he kept landing shots on it.", 
        "Yup. ", 
        "Hitting the guy with your best shots and he walks through them isn't really winning. ", 
        "Something something damage bloodmask.", 
        "Not unusual vs anyone fighting a Diaz. ", 
        "He won the first round(imo), and got rocked in the second. If he gassed in the second, after virtually no weight cut, he must have a small gas tank.", 
        "He didn't gas, he got his lights punched out. ", 
        "> He didn't gas, he got his lights punched out.\n\nI rewatched the fight. McGregor was dusting Nate Diaz for the first round, and at least half of the second. One good punch rocked him, and then Nate swarmed, and went into grappling mode.\n\nWhen McGregor got roughed up, he decided to abandon sensibility, and go in for a takedown. The takedown was the thing that destroyed him. He forgot that he is a striker who knows grappling, but isn't a master of it.\n\nHad he just played it defensively a bit, recoverd himself, and kept striking he could've pulled out a win by decision. But he was so frustrated that he couldn't get his KO, and he lost his mind for a moment.\n\n", 
        "Nah man, he was fucked before the takedown, he was either getting KOd or subbed.", 
        "Not a huge fan of his but it definitely looked like he gassed. He was noticeably more sloppy and slows down even before he got rocked.", 
        "Conor prides himself on his cardio\n\nHe got 1-2 and 1-2ed again - shrug of his hands and he went for a takedown rather than get his head knocked off\n", 
        "Inspirational words from Conor. I like it.", 
        "I have never been a McGregor fan only because of his big mouth and brash talk. \n\nI think if he tones it down he would have a lot more fans. He does not have to stop being who he is , but he is not the second coming of Jesus and should stop talking like that. \n\nI do respect him as a fighter, he had the same issue as Ronda he believed his own hype and has a bunch of yes men around him. ", 
        "Everyting you said is wrong.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Fighters are worth their ad revenue.  People don't want to watch? Then they aren't worth anything.  How do you value entertainment? He just sounds like a douche talking about money.", 
        "really? so having 3 consecutive pay-per-view breaking fight cards isn't something to talk about? why does his money bother you so much", 
        "I guess the records are newsworthy if that's your area of interest, but all he produces is entertainment,  his worth, like everything else,  is a market force, what he's thinks he's worth isn't up to him.  Him grand standing about it is just a big circle jerk.  Good for him making the money,  but he still sounds like a douche", 
        "He has a 94% finish rate, the guy can fight. He puts on a show.  And talks a lot of shit.  That's why there's a circle jerk, but lets not pretend it's just his mouth", 
        "Still talking about 2 weights when all he did was move back to his division to fight a LW. He likes to call people out for making excuses but every time he speaks he throws that one in there", 
        "Whats all this talk about \"not going up 2 weight classes\" lol. 145... 155... 170. Nate had to cut to make this weight, albeit a rather small one it was still a cut. He weighed in 182 going into the fight according to a post on the 1st or 2nd page. Like Conor said he took a risk, fighting at practically his walk around weight, which not many fighters do if I really have to remind you guys that. \n\nI get you guys don't like him bragging about how much he gets paid, but Dana said this was on track to break every record they've had and Mcgregor was a huge part of this. Like he said when he was re-negotiating his contract, he would come at the UFC with facts, and in this post it is simply more facts. To me, anyways, he was humble in defeat. He didn't hide away, like many others would. I think many of you buy into his fight-hype persona way too much, and forget the glimpses we've seen of the 'real' Mcgregor. ", 
        "Exactly how a champion should react. I love it, can't wait to see him fight again.", 
        "Why would he want to see Nate again... unless Nate changes weight classes for him it's going to be the same results 10/10. Granted Nate would take a fight anywhere but Conor simply got outclassed last night. ", 
        "I certainly don't think he would want an immediate rematch, but I bet Conor will head back to the gym with the goal of plugging holes in his game.  I have no idea if it would make a difference, but if Conor figures he has improved enough -- I could see him wanting a rematch.", 
        "I just don't see why. This was a novelty fight. An experiment of Conors that failed. He can't compete with #5 at the weight how the hell would he compete with Dos Anjos? Nate outclassed him at that Wright and I really can't see him beating him. McGregor is pfp a top fighter. He needs to stick to 1 weight class down or up and keep dominating. An aldo rematch would be a good place to start ", 
        "It's a fighter thing -- you want to fight -- you want to fight the guys (or gals) that beat you.  It's like Dana kind of said last night in his backstage event recap -- Holly shouldn't have taken the fight with Miesha (in his opinion), but Holly wanted to fight.", 
        "Yeah no doubt I get that, but it's just a recipe for disaster. People are throwing the two weight class excuse out there but it was really one. Nate will win that fight every time. ", 
        "Freaking. Epic. \n\nI knew Conor would handle defeat well. The exact opposite of Rousey.", 
        "She's still undefeated in her mind.", 
        "Ronda take notes this is how you lose properly.", 
        "love this guy", 
        "ahshashdasudhasuihasufiashdfiuhsd", 
        "Agreed", 
        "I didn't see what RDA said, but Aldo was absolutely classless. ", 
        "something about him being soft, ", 
        "RDA said: \"*That's what weight divisions are made for, a bigger man can take heavier shots and keep going. A feather-weight can't think that he can go up and kill everybody. I'm not rejoicing in somebody's defeat but when you start think you're God, God shows you what you really are*\"\n\nI like it, but Aldo just saying \"You're a pussy\" to the guy he got starched by is too cringeworthy for me to handle.", 
        "I see nothing wrong with RDA statement too. Aldo was a complete retard. ", 
        "Conor showed up to a hand picked opponent and lost.", 
        "Great response. The two weight class thing is debatable, but the rest of it was pretty cool. I was curious to see how Conor would respond to his first loss. Very well, IMO. Everybody loses in MMA. He's right, he put it on the line. He cuts a lot of weight, and Nate looked a bit soft, Conor looked more fit, but still, very cool of him to be willing to jump weight classes, fight anybody, he delivered on the \"bringing martial arts\" back. It's not about just accepting fights you know you can win, the safe ones, of carefully managing yourself like a business. He is willing to take on all comers and to take his losses like a true warrior, realizing it's all just part of a longer journey. Good for Conor.", 
        "I don't know if I'm just fucked up but his hand is freakishly big ", 
        "Still arrogant, IMO.", 
        "This is awesome. Good for him keeping himself accountable and calling out Aldo and Dos Anjos. Hope he comes back stronger. Would expect no less. ", 
        "Love seeing this. I can't wait to see the Mystic fight again. ", 
        "Lots of respect for Conor as a fighter.  I love that he challenges himself and pushes for that greatness.  I wish more champions pushed themselves.\n\nI just hope we can put an end to him putting a holding pattern on three weight divisions.  Was rooting for Diaz for that reason alone, despite liking McGregor more in almost every facet.", 
        "I don't get why everyone is acting like he is going to get a ww title shot, like that was ever on the table. Yes this fight was at 170, but it was a catchweight against a 155er. Look at the top 10 of ww, would he beat a single one of them. Heck no! It feels like Conner is not going to learn anything from this fight. I can respect that he took a replacement fight, but all the terms were set by him. He thought he was invincable and thought Diaz was an easy way to try to hold 3 divisions hostage. He needs to just lay low, go back to 145 and keep wowing us there or go to 155 and put in some hard work beating guys there. Enough of the talk bro.", 
        "I could be wrong, I dont think I heard it directly from a UFC source or something, but I definitely read Lawler/Conor was extremely likely or a plan for 200 if he won.  Silly, but very possible.\n\nSeems more likely considering they booked Wonderboy who outside of the potential Condit rematch was the top option imo.\n\n", 
        "Woodley should get it, that'd be a good fight, similar to Condit and Rory fights where they stand toe to toe and bang it out", 
        "Woodley has a split decision win against Gastelum and a victory over DHK since he got dominated by Rory Mac.  \n\nConsidering the circumstances of Condit arguably winning against Lawler, and Wonderboy on a 6 fight win streak and beating Hendricks who had been firmly at #1/2 for a while, I just don't see how you can do Woodley.\n\nWoodley is also more likely to wrestle.  I doubt youll get the fireworks you got with Rory/Condit.  Thompson on the otherhand.... gods that could be fun.", 
        "Woodley beat condit, put him out for a year and I don't want to see rematches so...\n\nLets see thompson vs rory and maybe 1 more. His signature win is against a steadily flailing Hendrix?", 
        "Id say at least he has one, to go with a decent streak.  \n\nIf Thompson beats Rory (a hell of a test) and didn't get a title shot.... I wouldn't have words.  Top two guys in the division outside of the champ and a 7 fight win streak.  There is almost no more you could possibly do.", 
        "Yeah if he beats Rory, sign him up. Have woodley fight in the meantime", 
        "I kinda wish Conor would have won just to watch Lawler break McGregor's face apart.", 
        "Awesome. ", 
        "One thing that was very apparent, Connor tapped right away, Holly had to be choked out. He's humble in victory and humble in defeat. ", 
        "Some RNC just block the veins on the outside of your neck, leaving your air-passage free. Others feel like your entire throat is being smashed. Those are chokes I tap to quickly. ", 
        "Yep he knew he was caught, and rather than have Nate put him to sleep needlessly or crank his neck and injure him if he didn't go out fast enough for Diaz' liking he tapped out quickly.\n\nFucking just bleed fans around here dogging on a dude for knowing he is done and not taking unnecessary punishment. The fans that act that way are why our sport isnt as big as it should be.\n\nHave an upvote for not being one of those jagoffs.", 
        "We're dogging him because he said and i quote \"i will never quit in a fight again\" and then made fun on Cowboy for quitting. Well a few months later and look who's the quitter now. ", 
        "Right attitude.\n\nBut let it be known for the 1000000000 time Nate is a lightweight ", 
        "hes also fought Rory at WW and went to a decision", 
        "So when he said he put it \"all on the line\"...what exactly is he talking about? Because he was in line to get 2 more title shots at other divisions without putting his belt \"on the line once\"", 
        "Good on him. Thanks for all you do McGreggor! ", 
        "He keeps saying he went up two weight classes, but he fought a guy who usually fights at 155 at his walking weight. He put on a little extra too but I doubt he was that much heavier than his normal fight weight. At the end of the day they both weighed in under 170. ", 
        "Too right son.  Strength and honor!  ", 
        "This is a guy with class. Jon Jones wishes he could be half as much of a man as Conor. ", 
        "He was going on and on about weight not being a factor, called Nate a fat skinny guy, and now he wants extra kudo's for weighing in a pound less? Come on now Conor...", 
        " a pound? he went up 2 weight classes for a fight, not many others are doing that, I think the count is like 0 others doing that actually.", 
        "He walks around at 180 lbs and made a career fighting smaller guys. This is the first time he fought someone his own size and lost. Saying \u201clets see anyone else go up 2 weight classes\u201d but conversely lets see who else sandbags 2 weight classes. ", 
        "Check the weigh-in numbers. Watch his Conan interview. Look up Penn Vs Machida. Then tell me what you think afterwards.", 
        "He went up two weight classes and fought a light weight. Let's not kid ourselves here, he didn't fight a full blown welterweight and both weighed in similar weights without having cut, they fought at a walk around weight so no man had the weight advantage here. If he went up to welter and fought a rehydrated welter who is outweighing him by 15 or so pounds then you can say he actually moved up two weight classes. But as it turned out he fought a lightweight. Conor himself is a huge featherweight. \n\nPeople need to see this for what it actually was and not fall for the spin. If he can't handle Nate Diaz who has been a career light weight then he has no business at 155. Best to stay at 145 beating up 'midgets'.", 
        "\"Dos anjos you are a pussy.\"", 
        "Did RDA say something today to rile CM up? Not exactly sure how the LW champ could be considered \"a pussy\" by someone who has little to no chance of beating him anytime soon.", 
        "I don't why I got downvoted, CM was just replying to Aldo's recent tweet or whatever.", 
        "Aldo is definitely the biggest pussy in all of this.", 
        "He's going to lose to Frankie too.", 
        ">I will take it like a man\n\n>Proceeds to call people names.\n\nRight.", 
        "Aldo and RDA are pussies?  A fighter only ranked 5th at 155 just cleaned his clock.", 
        "He only said that because of the response from them on Twitter. Aldo literally called him a pussy for losing, which is ironic considering he got knocked out 13 seconds but thats besides the point.", 
        "When you lose like Aldo did or pull out of a fight like both Aldo and RDA did (a championship fight no less) you really don't have much room to be casting insults.", 
        "Conor is amazing. Can't wait to see him back more focused and refined than ever.", 
        "Why is conor and all of his fans saying he jumped two weight classes? He fought a lightweight without the weight cut. ", 
        "Conor jumped two weight classes, Nate went up one.  Why is this so hard to understand?", 
        "what's hard to understand for Conor fan boys is that it would have been a 155 fight if it had not been 10 days notice for Nate.\n\nConor did not fight Matt Brown, Woodley, Rory, Wonderboy, whatever, he fought a guy that fights @155.\n\nSo he should say I jumped two weightclasses to fight a fighter that was not top-5 at \\155.", 
        "That's not hard to understand at all.  Nate's the #5 ranked LW and he'd fought twice since November of 2013 before last night.  So it's kind of tough to know where he should be ranked with him fighting so rarely the last few years.  If you're just gonna say some dumb \"fanboy\" shit, just fuck off and don't respond.  It's a waste of time for everyone when people talk like that and doesn't add anything to any discussion.", 
        "I'll respond as much as I want thank you very much.\n\nSo easy to understand you don't seem to do at all.", 
        "You talking like yoda bro, or slow you just are?", 
        "is 170 2 weight classes above 145? there you go buddy", 
        "You're absolutely right conor weighed in at 168lbs, but we all know the fight had two lightweight fighters who didnt cut weight. Welter weights dont get in the ring at 170lbs, light weights do so to me conor jumped up 1 weight class. ", 
        "im paraphrasing but demian maia said he'd rather not cut weight and use his technical skill to win rather than draining his body to get an advantage.  So is he not a welterweight? Whether fighters cut or not doesn't make a difference, the weight classes speak for themselves", 
        "you do realise Nate DID cut weight, weighed 182 in the cage apparently so the difference in size is real", 
        "Perfect response.\n\nPeople underestimated how much of a challenge going up was for Conor because he acted like it was another day at the in office until reality (Stockton) slapped him in the face.\n\nCan't wait to see the Aldo rematch, hope Conor continues to tear him apart for sitting on the sidelines and talking shit on twitter.", 
        "Rousey should take note, Conor is really handling this loss close to perfectly from a PR perspective.", 
        "I have so many people I know that hate on McGregor because of how cocky he is. To me he has always backed it up. This loss doesn't change anything. McGregor, keep doing you sir.", 
        "I like watching McGregor fight but otherwise I think he's a clown.  Talking smack non-stop, claiming to be the greatest ever, acting like he was going to fight Lawler and Merriweather and then claiming to be humble once he get's choked out by a guy who took the fight on 10 days notice who had no camp.  He's been drinking his own Kool-Aid.  I've got nothing against drumming up hype for his fights but you don't get to talk all that shit and then suddenly take the noble and high road when you lose.\n\nAlso 'going up two weights' - he fought a guy who probably weighs the same as him at their natural weight and who is two inches taller and weighed in ONE POUND heavier than him.", 
        "Still love McGregor. Not exactly easy to jump two weight classes and take on a guy with the ground game (and hard punches) of Diaz. Would love to see him hang at 155 for sure... I feel like he did what he came to do in featherweight, unless he wants to just keep destroying people while holding the belt, which I'd also be cool with.", 
        "He didn't really go up two weight classes. ", 
        "Mm he really did", 
        "No.... Diaz fights at 155. They essentially fought at 55 with no cut. Fighting at 70 would be Conor walking off the street and Lawler cutting 25 lbs. ", 
        "They were at 170. A weight class Nate has fought at before. Nate is the bigger guy. ", 
        "No doubt. Big for 55 but not 70.", 
        "That's not the point, the point is they're both lightweight fighters.\n\nA fight between two lightweights where both people agreed to not cut weight.", 
        "Not a fan of the guy but I have to appreciate his confidence and dedication to the sport. Regardless of how it went he's a champ that went up 2 weight classes and agreed to fight someone elite on 2 weeks notice that takes some balls. Still fuck him tho ", 
        "I don't know much about MMA - but this non stop talk about money, mocking others for making less is...just really low. There are champions in other sports who probably make way more than these MMA guys ever will - they don't keep talking about money all the time. Well, except mayweather types I guess", 
        "*drops mic", 
        "I don't even like him but fair play. That is a great response.", 
        "Conor pretty well won that exchange with the naysayers. ", 
        "The GOAT", 
        "I don't follow MMA, this is high on /r/all right now, but I just love the attitude he puts out here.", 
        "Blah blah blah, I'm overrated and a loud mouth, and I will happily get paid to lose to Nate again.", 
        "Nah, fuck you Irish boy it's downhill from here ", 
        "Wow, this is supposed to be inspiring? This makes people like him more? He sounds like a complete douchebag.\n", 
        "he's got a long way to go to get into the \"history books\". he beat a handful of mediocre fighters who are smaller than him. the only legit win he has is the aldo k.o., which was a solid victory, though he did fight a guy who hadn't fought in over a year and was coming off of an injury. i'm not saying he's not good enough to be at the top, but he has alot to prove still to be considered one of the greatest of all time. i like the way he fights, and respect the way he trains.. but i don't get the hype behind this guy's attitude. he has to act like a complete twat to sell fights, instead of selling fights with his skill and dedication. ", 
        "Connor acts like he was made to fight at 170. He's the one who upped it to 170. Also, he's never been humble win or lose. ", 
        "The dudes a legend.", 
        "That's all fine and dandy but he ran his mouth on the wrong motherfucker and it was distasteful so he took a beating for it. fuck money when honor is on line Diaz showed up ", 
        "hahaha saying Dos Anjos is a pussy. he'd get run the fuck over by RDA I mean for real", 
        "I like Conor more now tbh", 
        "Fairplay, gotta respect the fact he jumped 2 weight classes and took a shot when he could have easily waited.\n\n> I showed up, you showed up on twitter!\n\nBrutal.", 
        "Wow, he's an even bigger douche than I thought.  And that's saying something, being that he's already an MMA fighter.", 
        "blah blah", 
        "It seems that all that is involved in taking a loss like a man is saying that you taking the loss like man.\n\nRun around making excuses and ignoring everything you said before the fight. Continuously bringing up the two weight classes when you know damn well how misleading it is.\n\nYou can't brag about going up two weight classes and then use it as an excuse when you lose. That's just playing both sides of it. He knows he fought a lightweight and got whooped.", 
        "Still as pompous as ever. Stay classy Conor, ya bum.", 
        "RDA is *not* a pussy.", 
        "He sounds like a gigantic douche that I couldn't care less about.  Sheeple on instagram eat this garbage up.", 
        "You also talked shit, hence the twitter response, you tosser. \n\nedit: OK, downvoters, I tap...", 
        "Say what you will about Conor, that man has balls. I respect him for stepping into that octagon and putting it all on the line. He could've easily pulled from the card when Dos Anjos sat it out, but he showed up. He gave us all a great show. I cannot \"hate\" on the guy for that. ", 
        "That's beautiful. I'm glad he called out Aldo on this bs, in true Conor fashion. I get 11 days is short. Obviously there's *plenty* of fighters that can get ready on \"short\" notices (I dont know what's  exactly \"short notice\" compared to the time they usually give) if they figured it'd be reasonable enough to ask him, but whatever. It's really telling whenever someone finally gets put down another person finally grows the balls to say/start something. Like he said, that's *not* the personality of a winner, or at the *very least* not someone honestly confident in their abilities. That shows he's been running scared and his tweet is acting like he's some hardass. People like that need to be singled out", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "how is \"I was two weights up\" not an excuse? :D", 
        "*Dont ever fucking say you're sorry*", 
        "# *you're", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Not all people have been hating. Most of the Diaz fans are being as graceful in his victory as the Diaz brothers themselves are. Obviously there are people who hate him, but they're outnumbered by those who respect him. ", 
        "So, we will see a McGregor and Diaz rematch?", 
        "Steak for breakfast.", 
        "Wonder how the fight would have turned out if he had fought Anjos.", 
        "I am unsure. Dos Anjos was a monster when he fought Cerrone. I think that DOs Anjos would have murked him in two minutes flat. ", 
        "RDA by TKO. \n", 
        "Depending on why he gassed against Nate, he would have gassed against RDA.", 
        "Your'e* ", 
        "His hand is huuuuuge :O", 
        "That's just it being close to the wide camera lens.", 
        "Disappointing ;)", 
        "This should be cross posted to getmotivated or something. This guy is badass. What a great attitude.", 
        "Conor needs to start juicing if he wants to play at that weight.", 
        "His grammar is not awesome.", 
        "Dana White is crying drunk somewhere.", 
        "Are you kidding? He's still the biggest draw and the featherweight champ. This fight was really a no lose situation for both fighters. Short notice. Conor wins, he was supposed to and his legend grows. Diaz wins, he was supposed to because weight classes have a lot of meaning and bigger guys with great skillsets beat little guys with great skillsets.\n\nWhat this result has done has given Nate some goddamn respect finally, and potentially a title shot in his actual division, 155. If he were to win, guess what that sets up? A champion vs champion REMATCH with bad blood, history, and a fantastic backstory, and you know what that means? \n\n$$$$$$$$$$\n\nDiaz and McGregor love the money. \n\nI am praying to the MMA gods this is how it goes down. McGregor crushes Aldo and Frankie, Nate crushes a top three, then Dos Anjos, or Dos Anjos and a defense, then the big money rematch.\n\n:D", 
        "Conor was supposed to win and he didn't. I don't think he'll be coming out of the featherweight for quite a few years.\n\nPeople are making Conor out to be the next Anderson Silva, but it's not going to happen.\n\n", 
        "Dana White has a net worth of 350 mil, I think hes fine.", 
        "There a reason you couldn't link the source? Here is his IG: https://www.instagram.com/p/BCoCsjbLztN/", 
        "I know nothing about MMA but that dude wears a suit well.", 
        "Anyone else feel like he threw that fight? The odds were just amazing for a Diaz win", 
        "Na, it looked pretty straight forward to me. He got tagged with a good shot then Diaz capitalized and submitted. Dos Anjos would have picked Connor apart if they fought also. Connor knows it was a mistake coming up two weight classes so quickly.", 
        "Fair enough. I probably don't watch enough to pick it. Guess I just had more faith in him and was surprised he got done with that quick shot. ", 
        "RDA fight would've been different. Conor gassed from trying to throw bombs to a much taller fighter, RDA is similar height and it would be much easier to find RDA's chin. RDA's grappling is obviously the biggest issue but in pure stand up Conor would be more comfortable fighting RDA than Nate.", 
        "When it comes to pride and dignity in defeat, you can't do much better than that.", 
        "It wouldn't be McGregor if there wasn't a little trash talk against other fighters at some point", 
        "Can't wait to watch him shit talk and tap like a bitch again. Until next time! ", 
        "Holm falls asleep \n\n#RealChamp", 
        "When Nate said that he fights midgets, that kind of put his championship into question for me.  Sure, he made the weight, and he won the belt, but he is a lot bigger than the other guys at 145.  It kind of seems like when he finally fights people close to his own size, he just isn't good enough.", 
        "Stop bullying midgets", 
        "Guess the dude didn't learn his lesson.", 
        "Man's got swag", 
        "Need to learn to shut your mouth up after getting your ass beaten  ", 
        "He needs to go back to the midgetweight class so he can be bigger than everyone else and talk shit that he can actually back up. Didn't work last night. And this fool was talking about fighting Lawler? lol", 
        "Conor is the essence of that guy you want to hate but can't help respect because no matter how much shit he talks he'll back it up. He ate this loss like a man.", 
        "But does he give credit to the Getty Images photographer he lifted that picture from?", 
        "You can't hate this guy. ", 
        "I find it quite easy to not like him. I actually find him unbearable at times during interviews", 
        "To each his own, I suppose.", 
        "Fuck conor mcgregor. ", 
        "How dare you, sir.", 
        "I feel the exact opposite.  How can anyone like him or call this post humble?", 
        "Didn't say I thought he was being humble. Just my opinion. I didn't know he was disliked on this sub. ", 
        "Pretty bold statement from someone running away from Aldo.", 
        "I think you missed a beat somewhere.", 
        "McGregor is the equivalent of Kanye West of the mma world. You can tell they are full of insecurity and self loathing that nothing will ever be enough and they will always feel like they have to prove themselves because they're so insecure and known in one way or another that no matter what success they have they're still just a big joke in everyone's eyes. \n\nThis dude has been Taylored to be this level of dumb ", 
        "When it comes to Conor Mcgregor \"taking this like a man\"... \n\n\nThat was a lie. \n\n\nYou couldnt even continue to take it like a man in the same damn post. ", 
        "The true character of a champion comes out in defeat. Conor is through and through and champion. Sad that all the casuals will only see the tap. He's still the biggest draw. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Really? Would conor sell out gates and set records for ppv if he wasn't this character? The man can sell a fight. I think that's all that is. He has money. Why hate for seeing him enjoy it. He brought a lot of eyes to MMA. In victory or defeat conor has always been class. ", 
        "What's he saying? I don't follow mma. Who are the pussies and why? Did this guy just lose?\n\nDownvotes instead of answers? Real helpful", 
        "Honestly there's a reason why his peers celebrated him losing..the dude talks shit day and night about all fighters and praises himself, then talks about how he's humble in victory or defeat just because he shakes his opponents hand after fighting them? Does a couple of days showing humility really cancel out the disrespect he shows towards others in the UFC time and time again?", 
        "That shit talk gets the losers who face him get paid when they put zero effort to promote a fight.\nBums like aldo who don't even put effort to learn English to make them selves money. \nIts called selling a fight he's respectful and friends with many figher's watching some boxing and learn some shit.\n\nThese guys put their lives on the line for money so might as well get as much as possible even if it means being a reel. ", 
        "I realise it's an act in order to sell the fight, I have no issue with him promoting his fights to maximise revenue..but if you're going to put on an act that's disrespectful to gain popularity/sell PPVs at the expense of your peers, don't be mad when they're happy to see you lose..don't claim to be humble in victory in defeat when you're clearly not..Once again, no issue with him being the cash cow in MMA, he deserves it..I'm just saying that imo, he's not humble, and there's a reason why other UFC fighters celebrated his loss", 
        "But he was humble in Victory he didn't talk shit about Nate nor the fight.\n\nYou have to humble to your opponent, not a dumbass who got his lights knocked out in 13 seconds who finally grew some balls to shit talk after he didn't do shit and also backed out of re match on short notice. \n\nLot of UFC fighters also calling him a great champion and taking the loss like a champ u are just choosing to read the negative one's and he's quite friendly to his fans and other fighters like him to even with all the shit talk on screen faber and him are good friends and so is chad after he got paid.\n\nSeriously you have to be some kind of a moron to not understand that the whole thing is an act to get more attention to themselves to get a bigger pay day sooner other fighters learn to be entertaining the faster they can make more money. ", 
        "I don't think you're understanding what I'm trying to say..I'm fully aware that Conor McGregor puts on an act to sell his fights..What I'm saying is that although it's an act, it shouldn't be ignored just because he only said disrespectful things about others just to draw attention and increase the PPV buy rate.\n\nI never said the whole of the UFC roster was happy he lost, I said there's a reason why other fighters celebrated his loss or seemed happy that he lost. This was in response to him being mad (interviews and social media) that other fighters celebrated another man's victory. He specifically referenced Aldo and RDA, who were obviously happy that Diaz choked out CM. While Aldo should be the last one to talk shit after getting KFTO, can you blame him for celebrating the loss of man that constantly disrespected him before and after the fight? Is it wrong of RDA to be happy when CM talked shit about him leading up to the fight and then somewhat tarnished his reputation when calling BS on his injury even after the broken foot was confirmed by RDA and Dana White (through the UFC doctors)?\n\nFor example, John and Sam worked at a factory and there was a managerial position up for grabs. So John went around talking trash about how lazy Sam is and all that nonsense, while claiming that he's the most productive employee at the factory and the promotion should be given to him. John doesn't really mean what he's saying, but he's just saying it to put himself in the best position to get the promotion. Others actually believe the rumours and start to hate on Sam. Anyway, the promotion ends up being given to Sam and John is the 1st one to congratulate him and gives his best wishes for the future. Does that make John a humble person? No, he's still a dick for spreading malicious rumours in the first place.", 
        "And I never said he was disrespectful to the fans. It's quite clear that he is very respectful and grateful towards his fans. The only point I'm trying to make is that there's this perception that he's humble in victory and defeat, but if you look at the WHOLE picture and not just minutes after one of his fights or the post-fight press conferences, that's a myth because act or not, he's anything but that.", 
        "Yes, he can talk. But he certainly can't walk the walk.\n\nCouple more losses to fading into obscurity, that would be a good plan going forward.", 
        "People complain about the Conor McGregor hype train here. The McGregor hate is even more ridiculous. The guy loses a fight to a guy out of his weight class, who he was dominating right up until Diaz caught him, and some of you want to write him off? Lmao. He's still the featherweight champion, folks. Holy shit.", 
        "The hate train is full steam ahead. Not much point in fighting it right now. I was never a fan of Aldo, but I don't think him getting knocked out means he's a nobody. You can't tell your brain to not get rattled. In the future Aldo COULD win. Diaz could beat RDA, Conor could beat Diaz. None of this is impossible and it doesn't mean any of them are chumps if they lose. ", 
        "One loss and still has a belt... If a loss means heading in the direction of obscurity them all the fighters are fucked", 
        "He knocked out Aldo in thirteen seconds. Let's not forget he's a top caliber fighter. ", 
        "If he won the lightweight belt from RDA, which I doubt would happen he mentioned he wanted to for the 170 belt. Lawler would have absolutely destroyed him.", 
        "Who cares?", 
        "Fair fucks at least he isn't a pussy like Aldo but no excuses. Save the talk until you win again. ", 
        "Somebody else wrote that for him. ", 
        "I kinda want him to beat nate. I don't like the slaps he gives.", 
        "2 weight classes up?  Um Nate fought at 145 not that long ago or at least 155 if my memory serves", 
        "All I got from this... 6th line from the top.. You're**", 
        "You're*", 
        "you're**\n\nit's**", 
        "This must be what he meant by \"humble in victory and defeat\".", 
        "Weight class wasn't really a huge factor. He just fought Diaz's game. But i've been a fan of both for so long that I can't be happy or sad. It was just an awesome fight that i'll never forget.", 
        "It was either this or to not post anything at all. After what Ronda did it's really unlikely someone will take a loss as bad as her, people learned. \n\nDon't get why people are so inspired by someone saying basic 101 PR shit.", 
        "So much downvoting going on..", 
        "I wasn't a huge fan, in fact i was hoping Nate would win and was happy he did but McGregor has won me as a fan in the way he took this loss he's still a champion and I'll be looking forward to his next fight. ", 
        "I hated him before. I respect him now.", 
        "I just found out today that I'm related to him! My moms cousin is married to his uncle!!! \n\n.... cool story, huh?! ", 
        "I'm starting to think MMA fight out comes are pre planned. ", 
        "Lol no. You can't pre plan a fight. This isn't WWE", 
        "Dude you can pre plan anything. It's all a charade man. The Man just lets you believe in the illusion of free will to control you. ", 
        "You absolutely can.", 
        "Or... in two weeks, he'll be crying on TV on Ellen. You never know with these types.", 
        "2 weight classes thing is a joke.  I mean Nick Diaz is a LW, so you fought a fighter 1 class above yours, but just didn't require a big cut (which is why it was at WW).  \n\nIts like Chris Wiedman fighting Machida @ heavy weight just so they don't have to cut.  ", 
        "Conner you are a pussy.", 
        "lol at calling aldo a pussy when he can't handle ground and pound and IMMEDIATELY gives up his back.. starts to get choked, and IMMEDIATELY taps.  What a fucking joke.\n\nedit: keep riding that dick all you 3-month die hard fans.. doesn't make it less true.", 
        "aldo is a pussy for talking shit on in the internet. ", 
        "I don't think that makes aldo a pussy.", 
        "Isnt that that mcgregor does? What does that make him? ", 
        "100%.  With that said, I responded before realizing aldo called him a pussy.. I don't think aldo gets to call gregor a pussy off someone else's win.  I don't like conor at all but he is no pussy, and not to be disregarded.  None of these guys are pussys.  They're all tough as nails (relatively speaking)", 
        "Very minor detail that 99% of viewers miss, but just awesome BJJ from Diaz. Great timing.", 
        "I liked seeing Kron's reaction to the choke.Never seen him so animated and happy. ", 
        "How about when he locked up Conor's arm going for the mount?", 
        "\ud83d\ude31", 
        "Then the nice switch to the high elbow which made conor roll", 
        "Diaz' ground game is always on point. Way to cut his momentum from the escaping attempt.", 
        "Agreed. I know it sounds funny when Rogan says things about \"legit BJJ black belts\" and whatever, but this is what he's talking about. Such a gulf between black belts like Diaz and the rest, which is why a guy like Conor, who is considered to be a solid brown, looked like a new blue belt against Nate. ", 
        "Are you forgetting that he was rocked and gassed when this happened? I'm not saying they're equals but it's kind of hard to compare them when one is tired and hurt.", 
        "That's a fair point but it's all part of the game.", 
        "Nate did great,  but the reason Conor looked bad in the grappling in round 2 is because he was a zombie. Conor swept and took dominant position in the round 1 grappling exchange when he was fresh. ", 
        "yep he was out on his feet after that punch", 
        "I'm sorry but there is absolutely nothing 'solid brown belt' about anything Conor McGregor does on the ground.  Maybe MMA 'bjj' brown but definitely not legitimate competition/sport brown. ", 
        "'Solid brown'\n\nMediocre purple, who relies on athleticism more like it...", 
        "Conor swept Nate in the first tho...", 
        "Conor didn't look bad on the ground at all.  He swept Nate from SLX and then got fucked up on the feet and submitted after a desperation takedown.", 
        "> a guy like Conor, who is considered to be a solid brown\n\nMaybe Conor's hypemen and nuthuggers believe that (although deep down they truly believe BJJ is shit, and MMA is all about punching, moving and pseudo-capoeira choreography), but everyone else knows that's BS. He's a BJJ blue belt. Purple belt at best.", 
        "He got his brown belt by beating poirier, it's not the same.\n\nIt's like Rashad getting his black belt in bjj for fighting in the ufc.", 
        "Frank Mir got his black belt after the Tim Sylvia fight", 
        "Herb Dean was so funny in that fight", 
        "Mir snapped Sylvia's arm in that fight.", 
        "Except he got a sub in a championship fight- and was a legit bjj competitor?", 
        "No different according to your statements. He got a black belt for fighting in the UFC. ", 
        "I hear what you're saying, but Kenny Florian calls him a brown belt. That's good enough for me.", 
        "I'm sorry but this is a very stupid post which shows you clearly have no understanding of BJJ or how people get their belts.\n\nHe didn't get it BY beating Poirier, his coach/BJJ instructor just chose that moment to give it to him, no different from getting spanked with it in the gym except more cameras around.", 
        "Oh. I've only being doing bjj for two years and I've seen plenty of people get promoted while on the podium. \nBut that's besides the point- the point is that connor definitely isn't at brown belt level, he might be at blue belt level.", 
        "Nope. It's just that Nate is such a high level black belt he can make a legitimate brown belt look like a blue belt. Trust me, I'm also a blue (training for 2.5 years) and Conor would spank you or me in BJJ all day. It's just a levels thing", 
        "You are out of your fucking mind if you think Conor is only a blue belt.\n\nHe may not be elite on the ground next to his contemporaries, but thinking his skill level is a blue belt is basically you standing on the highest soap box you can find and shouting to the world you know absolutely nothing about BJJ. Nothing.\n\nThe sweep he used against Nate alone is *extraordinarily* revealing of just how good Conor really is. \n", 
        "I see him grapple often at the UFC gym and he definitely moves like a brown belt. No way he's blue belt level.", 
        "[Honest to God, was everyone asleep when this part of the fight happened?](https://gfycat.com/FlashyDefenselessAfricanrockpython)", 
        "Really nice X-guard sweep by Connor", 
        "He should have attacked the leg palhares/ryan hall style honestly. He could have ended the fight right there.", 
        "Yeah but he's not Palhares or Ryan Hall. That's like saying he should've hit him Mark Hunt style or kicked him Wonderboy style.", 
        "He hit a fairly complex single leg x guard sweep.\n\nWith the single leg x guard you're more than halfway there.", 
        "Am I remembering this correctly, didn't Joe say that Nate pulled guard here? It made me cringe. It looks a lot like a position Rodrigo Pagani (who invented the move) taught me called the curu curu guard. I had a 100 pound weight advantage on him, and I couldn't stop it. No one could stop it, when we knew exactly what he was going to do. ", 
        "It's insane how everyone is acting like Nate let this happen and refuse to give McGregor even the smallest bit of credit.", 
        "Yeah, it's not like you're saying he's an ace on the ground, he has a couple slick moves and pretty good top control. Even on the takedown Conor was trying to do the right stuff, it wasn't until he was on his back and hurt that his Jits game fell apart, which has happened to better grapplers before.", 
        "People keep going on about McGregor nut huggers on this sub, but you're like the second person to agree with me, while I've gotten about 30+ messages in the last hour about how Nate let himself get swept as part of his masterplan to end up in a ball against the cage and Conor doesn't know any bjj", 
        "Haha Conor Nuthuggers have become our boogeyman. I bet there's a phycological reason that when people get together in groups we invent others to rally against but fuck if I'm ganna research it. ", 
        "It was actually Goldie who said that. Joe went dead silent during this grappling exchange, which I found a bit strange. ", 
        "i'll have a sweep and a slap for 500 alex", 
        "Nate invites anyone into his guard. One of the best at throwing up submissions from full guard", 
        "I remember watching that live and just being amazed at how little McGregor did to defend that. But heads up move to grab the heel on the way down", 
        "Conor legitimately had no chance in this fight and i dont think he will.  Especially if Diaz goes through a full camp. ", 
        "I was half expecting the finish from Nate there, but don't think he tried for it due to lack of time left in the round. Nate is awesome on his back and utilizes his long legs incredibly well. ", 
        "Lol he rolled into l guard. Did you think you were watching conor out wrestle nate hahahaha omg dude..", 
        "That was a nice play by Connor after the leg drag. I was surprised when I saw it in the fight but I'm not surprised it has been completely overlooked after the loss and it's all \"Connor's ground game sucks!\"\n\nI say that as someone who is not a fan of McGregor, either. It was a nice reversal.", 
        "Yeah, nice sweep by mcgregor...after getting effortlessly taken down and passed. ", 
        "There was no pass. ", 
        "Didn't expect McGregor to get dumped on his back by such a simple single leg attempt. ", 
        "Nate didn't pass, I think he didn't care about being swept, it was a nice sweep though.", 
        "I mean he didn't pass in the sense that mcgregor never really had a chance to establish guard, but....that means he wasn't in guard. He wouldn't score for it in a tournament but he sure as hell avoided mcgregor's 'guard' such as it was. ", 
        "I think this exchange would have been scored for Conor in a tournament....I doubt Nate would have gotten credit for a takedown, as he didn't establish top control and ended up getting swept - and Conor established the top position - and that would have been points for Conor.\n\nThe thing is that he chose to strike instead of establish top, so obviously in a grappling tournament Nate would have worked to establish top control and the exchange would/could have gone differently.", 
        "I think Diaz allowed that to happen because he doesn't mind being on his back, it doesn't look like he made any effort to prevent being swept.", 
        "Making excuses for Nate getting swept and acting like he would willingly choose to go on the bottom in an MMA fight is just silly, it's not like bjj, being on the bottom in an MMA fight is the worst place to be even if you're great on the ground.\n\nHe won the fight, you don't have to come up with reasons for why he got swept.", 
        "Just doesn't look to me like he attempted to defend at all. ", 
        "So your natural conclusion is that he willingly traded the most dominant position for the least dominant position rather than give McGregor even a little bit of credit for it?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Haha. People keep messaging me, I don't want to be one of those people on reddit who deletes their account or never replies when everyone disagrees with them, I'm going to argue my point of view for a little bit at least.\n\n", 
        "I know absolutely nothing about bjj and I'm not into reading clear-as-day narratives when it comes to fights. Looks like both were improvising, Nate being slightly more calm about the situation as he slaps McGregor twice while attempting to control himself off balance. ", 
        "You're right, you do know absolutely nothing about bjj, neither of them were just improvising.", 
        "Being on the bottom in an mma fight is not the worst place you can be if you proficient in bjj", 
        "I wouldn't say he \"let\" it happen.  More than likely, connor got in a position where Diaz could feel he was going to be swept, and Nate conceded the sweep so he could still have guard.  The alternative would have been nate trying very hard not to get swept, and as a result ending up in a worse position like bottom side control or turtle or something.  \n \nNate didn't \"let himself get swept.\"  He got swept and conceded the position so he could still have guard.  ", 
        "more like Nate wanted to stockton slap him a few times (I counted 3) and could care less about securing position, likely because he knows Conor could do squat on the ground.", 
        "Dude, seriously retarded. Position is all you have on the ground, nate is good, and I'm happy he put McBigMouth in his place, but nate got swept, against his will. ", 
        "Lmao do realize what the word concede means?", 
        "To surrender or yield.  Its use generally implies some amount of force was involved.  I gave my brother a Christmas present, I didn't concede a Christmas present to him.  However, I conceded the victory after it was clear I wouldn't win.  ", 
        "I'm no expert by any means, but wouldn't that be the \"difference\" between them? That's experience showing through and having confidence off of your back instead of avoiding what most people would consider a bad position and potentially falling into a far worse position, right? ", 
        "get your filthy logic out of here", 
        "yea, but you cut it off... nate was clearly much better on the ground, conor couldn't control his body at all, he was spinning at will and then inverted and locked conors body and was gripping a leg when the bell rung. Conor was about to get owned on. It really looked like Nate didn't fight off the takedown at all either and jsut rolled with it, why would he fight it? besides.. he leg dragged conor so easy its kinda weird since conor is very dexterous\n\nSure..it was a \"surprising turn of events\" to consider Conor would take him down that easy from the ground so its probably a good idea to think about it a little bit critically. The heel lock Conor had was pretty much nothing, and Diaz made no attempt to fight anything and just sat down.\n\nedit: ok, im home and thought about it more. I was being blinded because Im a 209 fanboy for life. Conor did good with the sweep, it was very nice, it was surprising and he prob did catch nate slipping more than I gave him credit for. I didn;t think he was actually threatening a heel, but he did use the grip wonderful to control nate and get the sweep, roll nice and come out on top. Bravo. Nate did put himself into a very poor position, and i did notice that in the fight as well. I don't think he expected it. There, I said it. I still however, feel my comments below this were correct and Conor was getting out of his element very quickly and the striking on ground was even.", 
        "I didn't make the gif. It's insane how people are making excuses for Nate here, it's just a sweep that shows McGregor isn't as bad on the ground as people are making out, Nate won the fight anyway. I don't get how you think McGregor was about to get 'owned on' when Nate was in a ball against the cage but whatever\n\n", 
        "Conor was able to turn Nate over but Nate controlled him from his back. Conor at the very last few second of the round started grabbing at the cage to try and get free of Nate.", 
        "Conor didn't sweep.. Nate literally grabbed the back of Conor's head to pull him in for more slaps.  Conor did not control any of that exchange.  Nate stepped over then pulled Conor in and sat down.", 
        "Alright well you're definitely an armchair analyst because that's an actual move, like it's a textbook technique in bjj. Why would you talk about something when you have no idea what you're talking about?", 
        "You have to clarify what you mean by \"that\" - grabbing someone's head and slapping the shit out of them? Sorry if I don't know the technical term.", 
        "You may even be a retard if you're acting like there's strikes in bjj", 
        "Stockton Slap.", 
        "> like it's a textbook technique in bjj. \n\nWell, you are talking about this like you know something or train but then you disregarded my comment and think nate was just balled up on the ground. So which is it? Could you not notice the flow of what was happening on the ground? \n\nSure conor did good in catching nate stepping high, but nate clearly did not fight it off either. I mean, the sweep was so slow you can break it down into multiple series of movements..... I didn't make \"excuses\", just stated the obvious. \n\nI think Conor was about to get \"owned on\" because his ground game is nowhere near nates and nate was moving it into more advanced grappling areas. That was a bad idea, Conor should have stood up when he had a chance.\n\nI worded my first comment poorly, I didn't think you actually made the gif. My apology.\n\n", 
        "There's about a dozen people messaging me different excuses for Nate so I can't reply to them all with essays. Nate is good on his back and threatened with a triangle but he was still in a ball against the cage, so I don't know what you mean by that.\n\nNate didn't fight it off because he couldn't, Conor caught him. What's the big deal, why can nobody admit that, Nate won the fight anyway", 
        "Great sweep that contrary to other people ITT, i dont think Nate let him have.  But goddamn that kick looks lazy af", 
        "Where are all the Conor nuthuggers everyone constantly complains about? I've discovered that they're actually not a real thing, and I could have actually used the support of some rabid fans, instead of getting 50+ messages each saying that Nate actually Jedi mind tricked McGregor into sweeping him and it totally doesn't count.\n\nYeah, that kick was terrible, not like his usual kicks at all, what was all that about? I wonder if he was gassed at that point already.", 
        "Nate was in total control during that whole sequence. It's called rolling, and why Mcgregor got slapped and smacked on his way to Nate's full guard, where he posed no danger.", 
        "Come on bro, he wasn't in total control. He got swept. He stuck his right hand out to try to balance himself after throwing the first punch and when he couldn't he threw a couple of short punches as he settled into guard.\n\nConor got the better of this grappling exchange. They stayed up against the fence for the final 30 second of the round and Conor was landing shots from top position. I'm not saying he would have finished the fight from there or that his jiu jitsu is superior, but to say that Nate was in total control during the sequence, unless you mean in control of his emotions, I just disagree.", 
        "This is getting ridiculous, you're like the fifth person to act like Nate was willing to give up a great position to ground and pound, to one where he's balled up against the cage getting punched. Only a retard would trade those positions.\n\nHe won the fight, you don't need to make excuses for him, it's not the end of the world that he got swept here. Also, McGregor got out of his closed guard a second later, I'm seriously thinking that people actually blacked this sequence out.", 
        "Except he punched Conor like 4x more from his back. ", 
        "Do you even jitz bro?\n\nYou don't know what you're talking about. The whole sequence was 10 seconds. It's rolling/scrambling, anyone can end up in any position, it's what you do when you get there. Yes Mcgregor got a single sweep (yet posed no danger) on a guy who is comfortable any place on the ground. Go back and watch old Nate fights where he purposely hits the switch and resets positions as they roll...", 
        "Yes, I do train. That was not a scramble, it was a sweep in which McGregor ended up on top. People are acting like McGregor needs to work on his ground game when he quite clearly got the better of Nate here, and who knows what he could have done if he had more time. \n\nIt was looking for the knockout and not being used to the longer range that lost him the fight, not his ground game that everyone keeps banging on about.", 
        ">Yes, I do train. That was not a scramble, it was a sweep in which McGregor ended up on top. People are acting like McGregor needs to work on his ground game when he quite clearly got the better of Nate here, and who knows what he could have done if he had more time. \n\nHow is that not a scramble?  That is a ridiculously easy takedown, Conor doesn't even seem to know how to defend it.  As for the sweep he got on Nate, it is quite clearly because Nate did not care what position he was in on the ground with Conor.  If you did train as you claimed you would understand that easily.  Nate doesn't look to cement his position or even stop the ankle grab and sweep, he just starts swinging.  As a high level black belt he clearly doesn't respect Conor's ground game.\n\nIf he had more time he could have been triangled, etc etc, but my money would have been on him trying to seperate quickly.  Nate is an animal on his back with an iron chin.\n\n>It was looking for the knockout and not being used to the longer range that lost him the fight, not his ground game that everyone keeps banging on about. \n\nWhy do people keep looking for excuses for him?  He clearly didn't take this fight seriously and got made to a look a fool from it.  It was his ground game that cost him because all he did was headhunt, and as soon as it went to the ground he was made to look an amateur.  The Mendes fight proved his ground game was suspect.", 
        "Because he did an actual textbook sweep. Whatever, you Nate nuthuggers are if anything even more delusional than the McGregor nuthuggers people always bang on about yet don't apparently even exist, you're making excuses for something happening right in front of your eyes because you can't handle the thought that McGregor is in any way good whatsoever.", 
        "So you want everyone to say Mcgregor has a good ground game because of a single sweep on a guy who was too high up in full mount? A full mount that came seconds after the weakest leg drag I've ever seen? GTFO\n\nI agree with you that this fight was won standing, but Mcgregor's ground game was completely exposed the other night. Your gif doesn't invalidate that for a million reasons that you may understand once you train a bit more.", 
        "No, I want people to stop acting like McGregor needs to work on his ground game while at the same time acting like Nate is a world champion, when Nate got swept so easily, it's a massive contradiction. Yet people make excuses for Nate when it happens to him", 
        "Do *you* even jitz?\n\nIt is laughable to say that Conor posed no danger after hitting that sweep. He ended up in top position landing strikes for the remainder of the round. Like you say, it's what you do when you get there, and Conor got on top and landed strikes.\n\nSeriously, no good jiu jitsu player will happily sit against the cage on bottom. For one, the cage restricts your ability to move and for two, you are going to lose the fight in the judges eyes if you do that.\n\nSo if you think that this exchange was Nate clowning and controlling Conor, man, you're just delusional and you give Diaz fans the same bad name that delusional Conor fans give themselves.", 
        "Leave the thread. Actually, leave /r/mma for the next week while we celebrate Nate's great victory.", 
        "How about you leave your mother's basement. Nate's victory was great, it's the fact that people are attributing his victory to Conor's lack of ground game instead of Conor not dealing with Nate's reach or chin effectively.\n\nEveryone keeps banging on about his ground game instead of the fact that he gassed out and stood in Nate's range, it's bizarre. ", 
        "Oh my god I never noticed the slaps. Diaz went into full clowning mode", 
        "It really is an art to know *how and when* to integrate your personal slaps into your martial discipline on the fly. ", 
        "Absolutely, it's not like Conor had a beautiful sweep, its that Nate disrespects Conor's jiu jitsu so much he'd rather throw punches and let Conor get the sweep.", 
        "This gif was posted in /r/bjj and got over a hundred upvotes and dozens of comments talking about what a great sweep it was. How often do you see clean sweeps like that in the octagon? You're showing how little you know about bjj by saying that", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He's angry.", 
        "I'm angry? At what?\n\nI chose my phrasing because it's the wording to mock /u/OceanRacoon who said the same phrase about /u/elgrundle\n\nMaybe I was wrong about the sarcasm but I assure you I do not care enough about this matter to become angry.", 
        "No, he isn't, I'm pretty sure he genuinely believes that, lots of other people do.", 
        "I do. Props to Conor for the sweep, but if Nate actually respected Conors jiu jitsu he wouldn't stand over him throwing punches and looked to pass guard first.", 
        "This is sarcasm, right?", 
        "Correction, Nate did not throw punches, he threw slaps\n\n\\#stocktonslap", 
        "I know that we're all supposed to be hating Conor right now, but there's actually a little bit more going on there. \n\nThe sweep Conor used is legit, I use it all the time on very skilled opponents. Once I've got both ankles like that, I *rarely* fail to get the sweep. The difficulty is getting the other ankle, which Conor had. Leandro Lo, a lightweight bjj world champ, has used this sweep against Rodolfo Vieira, a heavyweight and absolute world champ,  multiple times. It's a great technique. \n\nYou can see nate get lifted off the floor and post his hands on the mat. Then he elects to punch Conor a couple times, since he's getting swept anyway. Then he gets a wrist and starts hunting triangle. \n\nI know we're all supposed to be hating Conor right now for some reason, but that's actually a very legit sweep and he did it well. It looked easy because nate knew when the sweep was inevitable, so he just went to guard. ", 
        "The flip side is that Nate appeared to have so little respect for Conor's ground game that it looked like he was going for a full mount right off the bat. You've got to think a guy as experience and skilled at bjj as Nate would've taken the easy side control that was wide open if he respected his opponent's ground game. Instead he went for the full mount, it didn't happen, and he still landed more strikes from his back than Conor did from full guard. After the 1st I knew there was no way McGregor finishes the fight on the ground even if Diaz just laid down on his back like his brother against Silva. Conor did was he was supposed to do there, but it was pretty much handed to him. Your average 2nd year bjj guy pulls that off more times than not. ", 
        "You don't know what you're talking about. Stop.", 
        "> Your average 2nd year bjj guy pulls that off more times than not.\n\nYeah, the average 2nd year BJJ guy sweeps Nate Diaz all the time.\n\nThe average 2nd year BJJ guy doesn't even know that position (Single X guard.)\n", 
        "Side control wasn't available, not even close. I'm not sure where you think you're seeing an opening for the pass, Conor was sticky with his hooks and took an achilles grip very quickly. Nate would have passed if he could have.\n\nIt might look like Nate was trying to mount, but the entire mechanic of the sweep is getting underneath your opponent and moving their center of gravity around. In the old self defense catalog of judo, the technique related to this was called ashi garami. It was designed to be a defense to someone standing over you.\n\nI don't know how to explain the intricacies of playing x guard and single leg x over text on the internet, and I'm not trying to be argumentative. I'm no cagefighter, but I have trained a lot of jiu jitsu in my life and I use this guard system every day, and in my opinion, Conor was playing a good open guard there. He certainly made mistakes in this fight, but I don't think this moment was one of them. ", 
        "I'm a wrestler, not bjj, so perhaps side control is the incorrect term? Here's what I'm getting at. Note when McG goes down that Nate's momentum leads him to drop his right shoulder and step his right foot forward. In wrestling you want to let the momentum do the work for you. I was always taught to follow through to the mat. In this case he would want to immediately sprawl. That would put him on top in a perpendicular position, or at least in half guard. Perhaps that's not technically side control? In any event, attempting to straighten back up and full mount works against his own momentum and was a no no, leading to him being taken down. I know it's easy for me to say seeing as how I wasn't the one making the split second decision, but it seems he went for the homerun rather than using sound technique. Once he had his ankle controlled that was that. I'm speaking about immediately before. \n\n", 
        "Good post...I saw the feeling of inevitability you get when someone catches you with this type of sweep, you know all your posts have gone and you're going down, best start thinking about putting frames in place (or short wind-up punching in Nate's case). \n\nPeople in this thread reusing that old soundbite that \"there's black belts, and then there's black belts\" i hope realise that Nate is in the first category there, not the second.\n\n\n", 
        "\"Oh no Connor, please don't take me down!\" \n\n*direct punches to the head/face while falling*", 
        "Seeing this in slow mo, I can see how Diaz just schooled Connor.", 
        "A lot of people missed that shit. Conor couldn't hit Nate at all during that exchange, got strength zapped, and got popped on the chin a dozen times", 
        "Almost Werdum vs Overeem level of contempt for Conor on the ground.", 
        "Leg drag, turned the corner and it was like butter. Easy!", 
        "Butter toast.", 
        "Hah. He even got in a couple of Stockton Slaps!", 
        "not a leg drag. Conor used a single leg x-guard sweep. Leg drag is a guard pass, not a sweep.\n\nedit. oh you mean the single leg takedown Nate did. Thats a single leg running the pipe to finish it. Still not a leg drag", 
        "Yeah, a single..turned the corner and it was butter. Correct, not a leg drag..", 
        "and he bitch smaked connor in the face before he pulled guard.", 
        "hehehe, you said \"solid brown\"", 
        "Deadpool: [raises his hands] WAIT! You may be wondering why the red suit. Well, that's so bad guys don't see me bleed. \n[points at a thug on the left] \nDeadpool: This guy's got the right idea... He wore the brown pants! ", 
        "Schaub's little brother, Solid Brown", 
        "Haha I knew this comment would follow", 
        "I wonder if they have a younger brother, small soft brown", 
        "He's called Soft Tiger Brown i believe.", 
        "Liquid Brown", 
        "Better than Tiger", 
        "There are black belts, and then there are black belts that make a career out of strangling other black belts. ", 
        "Nate looks like a brawler (like literally appearance wise), but is truly one of the most technical fighters of the sport. So good!!", 
        "nah, he doesn't have the \"finesse\" Conor has,... his style is terrible.\n\nshit... 3 minutes and -9 already? ", 
        "If you understood how BJJ works, you would have commented about how much finesse Nate has in his jitz game.\n\nI guess what I'm trying to say is.... Welcome to the sport. Try to learn as much as you can and feel free to ask stupid questions.", 
        "I've been following the sport since CC won the Grand Prix. [It was a reference to something somebody posted earlier](https://www.instagram.com/p/BCmgVtwgvit/) I thought more people saw it,... or had a sense of humor", 
        "that finesse really got conor far against him didn't it", 
        "I agree. Conor has a better hair style, but I don't think he uses Finesse on it.", 
        "Found Justin bieber", 
        "I'm still really confused on what he meant with that statement.", 
        "Like literally", 
        "that is part of his game, and Conor bought into it", 
        "I'm not sure if he looks like a brawler, I just think people underestimate him as he's far from articulate and comes over as a little bit stupid - the pressers with Conor really exposed this. \n\nI think people sleep on Nate because of this - if the guy was well spoken with an English accent, people would go crazy for how technically skilled he is and have a perception he's a smart guy. He has that kind of street/gangster image, when in actuality he's spent years and years in the gym drilling techniques. ", 
        "It's all part of his game. I think he's quite a bit smarter than he comes off as. ", 
        "If you're alluding to him doing this as part of a gimmick...I'm not convinced. I think he genuinely struggles with the press, especially if he's up against someone witty like Conor. However, he probably does play on the gangster gimmick slightly as it gives him something marketable and it's probably a reflection of his upbringing/personality. \n\nI don't think (at least I'd hope) none of the fighters underestimate him due to the way he carries himself in front of a camera...he's put way too many top level guys away and has proved consistently he's a very dangerous fighter.  ", 
        "Derp ", 
        "But the guy is well spoken, and has an American accent. ", 
        "No he isn't, he really isn't. He may be well spoken to some, but for the mass majority he stumbles over his words, has difficulty understanding when things are jokes and lacks any real ability to articulate his techniques and approach. \n\nNick was similar, but sometimes had incredible interviews where he broke down techniques in beautiful clarity. Nate has never done that, and doesn't seem capable to do so in front of a camera.", 
        "True. His public speaking sucks, but if you get past that his message is good and you can tell he is intelligent. Same as his brother. ", 
        "See, Nick is weird - in a good way though - he comes over dumb as fuck sometimes...aggressively so. But then you can hear an interview with him (I'm thinking of one in particular on Sherdog years ago, that was around an hour an a half long) and he's crystal clear with the way he breaks down fights, the techniques, the challenges etc....then he'll flip back to crazy, get aggressive and freak out.\n\nInteresting dude though, we need guys like the Diaz brothers in the sport, as much as we need guys like Brain Stann ", 
        "well I mean they're highschool dropouts who grew up in an impoverished area and learned martial arts at a young age. End of the day they probably just don't have the vocabulary because they didn't attend school to learn it. \n\nWhen they talk about mma or BJJ you can tell they know what they're talking about. It's just sometimes, they don't know the words to articulate it right.", 
        "I think that's the point. Both of the Diaz Bros are really smart... about fighting. A lot of people seem to think you have to be articulate and \"traditionally\" intelligent to be a technical fighter and it's simply not true.", 
        "People think you have to be traditionally intelligent for a lot of things, but as you allude to, it's not always true.\n\nI remember Joe Rogan going on about some dudes he knew, who could barely read and write. However, in a social situation, they'd be considered a genius - they'd make people laugh, be entertaining, remember things about people etc. \n\nI work in one of the big four (not an account though) and meet accountants who I'm sure have the intelligence of the very top percentile...however, ask these dudes to discuss ANYTHING outside of numbers and they'll struggle to do so with any confidence or charisma. \n\nIn a round about way, Nate is an accountant, he just uses his fist (and face) to work out the solution to the challenge in front of him. One dudes algebra is another's heel hook. ", 
        "Well exactly- they're smart and impressive when it comes to fighting because it's what they've dedicated their lives to. I'm sure they'd sound smarter than me when talking about marathons and nun chucks too. \n\nwhat I'm trying to say, and what my main point was, is that they don't have cognitive deficiencies , they just dropped out early and focused on fighting so that's what they blossomed in. Some people act like they have autism or some shit and that obviously isn't the case.  ", 
        "i have a feeling Nate has FAS", 
        "He's not stupid man, he just isn't playing the whole pro wrestling angle that the UFC wants all of the fighters to work. People also ask him retarded questions, he speaks just fine if people ask him intelligent questions. It's usually just bullshit though, and neither Nick or Nate are down for playing that game.", 
        "I think this is a lesson in not judging people by their appearances", 
        "damn, how many new UFC fans did Conor bring...Nate's been around for a long time. Crazy how people are just finding out about him.", 
        "Yeah. A lot of people just see a tough ass dude who grew up in Stockton fighting all his life. But he has world class training all around him, arguably the best in the world. ", 
        "It's also in part that he's had world class training in multiple areas. Nate is a very well rounded fighter and can hold his own striking and grappling. ", 
        "Yeah, like he said, he'd have more knockouts on his record but alot of these guys turn into wrestlers when they get outboxed lol. He'll box you up then tap you out. ", 
        "I don't think he's stupid, I think it's the speech impediment that makes him appear so. He doesn't use the most articulate language but again I don't think he's stupid. ", 
        "Yeah I have this argument with people concerning Mike Tyson. There is a difference between inherent stupidity, and refinement. Tyson and Diaz are not innately stupid. They are just people that have not refined their verbal skills through an educational program. Reading and writing sharpens your mind like a wet-stone to a blade. So that, plus his speech impediment, makes him (and Tyson) come off as plainly stupid. They're not. ", 
        "Tyson's actually pretty eloquent for a boxer. ", 
        "At times he really can be. But, people drop the stigma on him because of his brutish appearance and lisp.", 
        "Listening to Tyson talk in, I believe, 'Champs' had me damn near in tears.  When he talks about the past the pain in his voice is really hard to listen to. ", 
        "Augh! Agreed.", 
        "That's literally what I'm saying - I didn't say he was stupid, I said he sounds stupid but he's not and his skills show that. ", 
        "Fighting skills isn't a sign of intelligence...", 
        "I disagree. Any high level skill requires intelligence. Intelligence doesn't always mean calculus or history. Being a good fighter requires knowing hundreds of moves and counter moves. It requires reacting with zero hesitation.  It requires studying opponents and building a winning strategy. ", 
        "You might want to look up the definition of intelligence.  Just because you're really good at one thing does not make you intelligent.", 
        ">able to vary its state or action in response to varying situations and past experience.\n\nYou could absolutely attribute that to fighting. ", 
        "> he sounds stupid\n\nWhat does \"sound stupid\" mean? He seems to have a slight lisp, and sounds uncomfortable when speaking in public. Only bigots would belittle someone and say they sound stupid for that.", 
        "Come on, don't act like that. Russell Simmons has a lisp and I wouldn't for a second call him stupid. I'm referring to the shallow vocabulary he exhibits, his difficulty with articulating his points, his generic answers. \n\nAlso as an FYI - you used bigot in the wrong context. \n\nAdditional FYI, you sound like one of those people who always tried to label something, or make someone out to be a victim, while clearly lacking the ability - or just refusing to - understand the clear point made. ", 
        "You've called me stupid on another reply and are now belittling me for having a different opinion than yours. That's the definition of bigotry. You're a bigot. Don't bother denying it.\n\nI made you a very clear question. What does \"sound stupid\" mean? You don't realize people can't \"sound stupid\", they can only \"be stupid\". But being uncomfortable in public doesn't make someone stupid.\n\nPeople who believe someone can \"sound stupid\" are prejudiced and have an inferiority complex that makes them trigger happy when it comes to judging and belittling others.", 
        "Here we go...classic Reddit. Okay. \n\n>You've called me stupid on another reply and are now belittling me for having a different opinion than yours. \n\ntake a deep breath and calm down. I said you *sound* stupid. I didn't call you stupid. See, you're doing that whole playing a victim card again, it's kinda silly. \n\n>You don't realize people can't \"sound stupid\", they can only \"be stupid\"\n\nPeople can absolutely sound stupid...see this, this makes *you* sound stupid. I don't know if you are or not, you may be a very intelligent person, but saying things like that makes you *sound* stupid. \n\n>People who believe someone can \"sound stupid\" are prejudiced and have an inferiority complex that makes them trigger happy when it comes to judging others.\n\nYou sound like that vegan everyone knows, who walks around wearing leather shoes. \n\n", 
        "You have already shown you equate \"sounding stupid\" with \"being stupid\", even though you deny it because it helps you climb your high horse. If you didn't equate these two notions you wouldn't insist on relating them like a smartass.\n\nThere's nothing more stupid and low than being a prejudiced coward, which is what you are. Go back to judging people because they're uncomfortable on TV. That makes you a big man, no doubt.", 
        "Ah I had a look through your comment history and it makes sense. Classic Reddit indeed. Either a troll, or someone who loves attention. \n\nOnce your moms brought you dinner and you've finished playing video games, try and re read my comments and comprehend what they mean. \n\nI've still got faith in you junior, you can do it. ", 
        "I think if anyone is judging stupidity by the way one talks... Then they are one who is stupid.", 
        "Yeah, I was agreeing with you. I may not have worded it well though. ", 
        "Due to your typing impediment? :D!", 
        "Nate?", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfucker!", 
        "Come on, this is /r/mma. You need to argue with him even if you agree. ", 
        "There are definitely different types of intelligence and while he's not a verbal maestro he and his brother Nick are both very physically intelligent.", 
        "Guy talks like he gets punched in the face for a living", 
        "To be fair, both of the Diaz brothers have always sounded like that", 
        "In interviews not in front of a crowd he speaks normally. I imagine if you got me in front of a crowd to talk it would be all uuhhh ummmms and aahhhhs.", 
        "His post fight fs1 interview really highlights this.  He really grew on me more there than in the actual fight ", 
        "Which is absolutely understandable, but it supports the point that he *appear* to come across as stupid. That's his biggest downfall (from a fans respect) perspective, as a lot of people think he's slow and will just go in there like Cabbage, swinging for the fences.\n\nI'm basically trying to say, he's far more skilled and knowledgeable than his tongue makes out. ", 
        "If you understand how nervous/awkward anyone can get in front of an audience, you don't think people are stupid just because they can't be articulate in front of a big audience.\n\nPeople who think others are stupid just because they don't speak like a public speaker are the gullible morons themselves looking for a scapegoat to feel less insecure about their stupidity.", 
        "Go and re read what I said. For fuck sake you're the one who looks stupid. I  clearly said on multiple occasions that he may be perceived as stupid. I never said he was stupid. ", 
        "Yea, im not coparing him to Tyson but they both a a lisp which makes them sound less intelligent. ", 
        "for the diaz bro's fans its really easy to tell they have some kinda social problem, once you see their 1-1 interviews or self / team videos they're just normal dudes chillin with their homies", 
        "They have a very \"Them\" against the \"System\" thing going in a lot of the comments and interviews, which is pretty much how they grew up...trying to find their place in the \"system\" just to eat. It's just part of who they are and unfortunately is a down fall when it comes to PR stuff ya know, because they're just trying to make it which isn't their fault but idk, that's just who they are. Unfortunately the UFC prefers more charismatic people to pay out to.", 
        "get nick to talk about triathalons. he's a completely different person.\n", 
        "If there was the full gif of wen conor goes to his back trying to flip over nate lets go of the choke and slides his arm behind conors back to prevent him from rolling fully over.\n\nBoth Nate and Nick are TOP BJJ black belts and artists. Kind of odd that conor was mocking Nates Jiu Jitsu prefight saying it wasnt that good and he would pass his guard and dominate him on the ground.", 
        "Why don't you use any commas or apostrophes?", 
        "He said Mendes was a white belt that couldn't pass guard and he'd submit him too. Conor doesn't set out to say things he thinks are true, he sets out to simply talk shit.", 
        "To be fair, I think that Conor's bjj is quite good as well. He demonstrated excellent passing and control against Holloway, and against Nate he even hit a sweep and established top position in round 1. Finally, Conors guilotine defense was on point (he passed to the correct side) but Nate was just one step ahead of him. There's no shame in getting out grappled by Nate, and people need to realize that when Conor says \"I will smash his hips and pass his guard\" he probably really means something like \"don't sleep on my bjj, I've prepared carefully for this\"", 
        "That's what happens when you start to believe your own hype.. we've seen it before.  There are not many people in the world who wouldn't be screwed on the ground with a BJJ black belt.", 
        "TBH, I feel he said many things he didn't mean, but to sell a fight to keep both their cheques super heavyweight.", 
        "Why not both? I think Rhonda's camp hyped her up to the point that she eventually believed what they were saying and Dana White was trying to spark some reality tv nonsense for the sake of a paycheck.", 
        "> I feel he said many things he didn't mean,\n\nI don't. I think Conor actually bought into his own hype. Dudes ego is simply out of control. He really needed to be taken down a few notches. ", 
        "Conors always gonna say shit that crosses the line cause he knows everyone will give him a free pass lmao..", 
        "Yeah, I think he's a good guy after all but what do I know. Even if he meant some of the things he say with bad intentions, it made me want to watch the fight more, made me hype the fight for UFC to my friends and made them watch it and Diaz got paid which is great. \n\nSo I think it's good for the sport in general. ", 
        "Couple more losses and he'll be Chael - just another rambling journeyman.", 
        "Both of them have insane mic skills, but not both of them are exciting to watch.\n\nConor is like Stone Cold or The Rock, Chael is like an old and immobile Naitch who just takes bumps.", 
        "[Chael is a tongue in cheek heel.](https://youtu.be/wh_eO2QoeCM) Conor actually *tries* to make sure people percieve him as a yung money rockstar and is surrounded by yes men. Skilled and a real champion, but their style of hype is vastly different.", 
        "The difference between Chael and Conor is that Chael has more material and doesn't repeat the same shit to promote his fight. Conor's funny but his material runs out and he resorts to calling people poor.", 
        "Yeah, you're right.\n\nOne other thing I noticed is that Chael is more natural, and even though he just rehashes old rasslin promos, they seem more flowy (yeah Hahahah) and relevant. Conor seems scripted, especially against Diaz. So a worked shoot vs a complete work? Lol", 
        "https://twitter.com/hulkhogan/status/125437560418865152", 
        "[**@HulkHogan**](https://twitter.com/HulkHogan/)\r\n\r\n> [2011-10-16 05:06 UTC](https://twitter.com/HulkHogan/status/125437560418865152)\r\n\r\n> Goodnight HULKAMANIACS and jabronie marks without a life that don't know it a work when you work a work and work yourself into a shoot,marks\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot\n\n[^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)\n\n^(Starting from 13th of March 2016 /u/TweetsInCommentsBot will be enabled in /r/leagueoflegends only. If you want it to monitor other subs ask it's moderator to drop creator a message.)\n", 
        "Gotta remember that the 13 sec ko of Aldo was very real.  He probably started believing his own hype and transferred it to other aspects of his game that is not as developed as his striking. ", 
        "That's how he can safely say anything he wants. Some of that shit he is being serious about, but he can always play it off like he wasn't.", 
        "That's true, but I think Conor is a good guy, really just riding with momentum with what he had going for him. Nate said this too, he'd be riding this wave if it was him.\n\n", 
        "Without the cameras and media, he is definitely a good guy in person, you can see it in his interviews on Conan and what not.  About 80% of what he says is probably for show, but I know deep down, some of it he is serious about. He can get away with saying certain things that most guys can't because people think he's just playing around.", 
        "I'm not saying that he's not a good guy in person but the interview with Conan most certainly involved the media and a camera.", 
        "Correct, but the difference is he is talking  as himself for the most part, as opposed to talking during his job. He plays a completely different character in the UFC interviews.", 
        "You're making the assumption that his real self comes out when he's being interviewed by Conan.  Most people put on a nice smiley face and say things that people want to hear when they're interviewed because it makes people happy and gets them fans.  I think he needs to put on the nice guy face on Conan because being a dick 100% of the time would push lots of the fans away.  Again, I don't think he's necessarily a dick in real life but I don't think you can claim that a version of Conor you see on camera is the real one.", 
        "There is no way to tell for sure, but I am getting the vibe that there are two types of Conor. ", 
        "Honestly, that annoyed me... It just seemed stupid. It almost seemed like he genuinely believed it and wasn't just saying it to say it too. He said Nick's BJJ was basic and slow etc. It was weird. It was like the line crossed from self-belief to just delusion. ", 
        "I don't listen to anything a fighter says pre fight because it's a fight with millions of dollars on the line, of course they're gonna do anything they can to hype themselves up and insult the other guy. Money changes behavior. \n\nI only care about the atheletic and technical competition aspect of the sport, the drama, i really couldn't care less. Unless it's something really funny or interesting..I usually don't care.", 
        "Conor is literally the Kanye West of the MMA world. He believes his own bullshit. At least in MMA you can be shown your idiocracy. But he still makes excuses.", 
        "That's why I laugh when people say the crazy shit he said was for promotion. If it was just promotion he wouldn't take the fight. He really thought he was unbeatable. ", 
        "I definitely agree with the notion that not everything is just for promotion. It's a scapegoat for some people to justify what he says if they feel it's wrong. I mean a lot of what he says is for promotion but there's more to it than that. There's perpetuating his self-belief and the psychological warfare. And it's simply just who he is to some extent... he just exaggerates that side of him in the media and shit.", 
        "He is also kind of an arrogant nouveau-riche prick", 
        "My intuition makes me wonder if Conor undergoes hypnosis to make himself believe what he says about himself and his opponents, partly because some beliefs are delusional.", 
        "He's selling you a fight and making millions. Use your head dude. Of course he's talking out his ass.", 
        "Yup. No fighter is ever going to trash talk with something like \"my bjj skills are inferior to my opponents therefore I might not pass his guard, but I'll sure try my darnest.\"", 
        "He probably administers the hypnosis to himself, too.", 
        "I mean,  can you really blame the guy?  He basically one punched Jose fucking Aldo a few months ago,  and your questioning on whether he believes his own bullshit? \n\nHe drastically over estimated his own ability and the Diaz fight was a reality check. Ultimately he will be better for it,  but I think it's a bit far to call him delusional. He has already exceeded his wildest dreams. ", 
        ">  it's a bit far to call him delusional\n\nHe called himself a god.  ", 
        "Welp I can't argue with that.  I concede my point and I stand corrected. ", 
        "People are likely gonna call armchair psychology there but I agree. It's very strange. It's not like he's stupid. He seems very into philosophy and actually very intelligent and sharp. Maybe that's where it comes from... the philosophy. But it still doesn't explain where he gets the capability to actually really believe it. I mean this is why he's so popular.... other people just aren't capable of thinking this way. Maybe he's good at deceiving.... who knows.", 
        "I disagree - being delusional gave him a false sense of security.\n\n\n\n\n\nThat security was based on arrogance, not skill.", 
        "Not really sure what you disagree with. I didn't come to any conclusion. \n\nBut for sure being delusional can be used/seen as a positive too. There's a point where it just becomes ridiculous though and it will hinder you more than it will help you. Honestly, fuck knows what's going on in Conor's head. He's an enigma.", 
        "Prior to this fight I havnt seen his statements or confidence as delusional. He is usually pretty good in his analysis and it would make sense that he could draw his confidence from that, but the shit he was saying about Nate's skill was straight up dumb, which was a big red flag for me, so I bet against Conor for the first time.", 
        "Yeah, I agree with a lot of it making sense in the past. I wish he'd stop going on about fighters pulling out when they have broken fucking feet and shit tho lol. I think he actually mentioned RDA's broken foot even in the humble/down to earth state of mind he was in at the press conference on saturday. I understand if it's for the show and stuff but I'm not sure what the motives behind those comments are anymore. I mean I don't mind them as long as he doesn't actually think that makes RDA a pussy and it's just promotional work and psychological warfare.", 
        "That's why I find it funny casuals think Nate got destroyed at the press conferences. Everything he said got to Conor. A lot of Conor's momentum was in his confidence. Every interview Conor was asked about his supreme belief in himself. When Nate said \"you don't even believe it\" the self doubt in Conor was palpable. ", 
        "100% I was surprised more people didnt notice. That was some deep level shit Nate straight called Conor on. Conor also didnt say a word when Nate talked about how much better his team was at fighting. ", 
        "Some of his beliefs are probably delusional.. but its that self belief that's got him where he is.. both in victory and now defeat", 
        "You'd also have to believe that he believes half the shit he's saying. It's all pre-fight hype to get more buys. There's no way Conor believes most of this.", 
        "Yours is a popular opinion that yet ignores the fact that the vast majority of people *actually believe* that they are unique invincible butterflies to which the rules don't apply. When was the last time you looked around at people? Middle management, relationships, social media, the culture of pop/celebrity, politicians, corporate scandal and executive crime, corrupt law enforcement entities, etc.\n\nHumans act this way all the fucking time, *especially* when fame and/or a position of power is involved, and yet the most popular response to observing such behavior is always *\"Oh it's marketing. It's all publicity. It's a PR move. _____ don't actually believe it.\"*\n\nYes they fucking do, that's why it happens. ", 
        "Agreed, this is what started to worry me for Conor, even my brother who only did TMA noticed it and commented. I picked Conor to be two division contender back when he fought Brandao. This is the first fight I bet against him because it seemed like he finally hit that point from centered confidence to an un-centered/delusional state, and he had too many yes men around to notice it at the time.\n\nHe broke the first rule \"Never believe your own hype.\" he needs to go back and watch his old interviews.", 
        "In that moment when Nate rocked him on the feet, I hope Conor saw a highlight reel of his own pressers and interviews flash before his eyes. Dude probably woke just in time to see another Diaz-sized UFC logo flying at his face.", 
        "Yeah, honestly he was ramping it all up too much... to the point that I (a big fan) was starting to get a little tired of it. His coach telling him Nate's BJJ was slow and stuff had me really confused. It almost made me question whether there was something I wasn't seeing because I didn't think fighters and coaches would really do that kind of shit. You'd think his fucking coaches would tell him different. His coaches should be embarrassed. ", 
        "I always found it really awkward to hear coaches baby their fighter between rounds. \"You're winning this, he/she can't keep up. You're doing excellent.\" Wut? With so many of these  rockstar fighters, it's like they revert to toddlers and their sycophant coaching squad become bob-haired soccer moms telling their little angels how special they are. ", 
        "Chael mocked Anderson's BJJ too and we remember how that ended.  ", 
        "To be fair, first time around Anderson's BJJ did nothing for him for 4.9 rounds. Chael was out grappling him right up til the final seconds. \n\nSecond time round Anderson had unlocked that puzzle and there was no hope.   ", 
        "To be fair it's not as silly as mocking someone known for their BJJ at the very least.", 
        "Well realistically chanel dominated Anderson on the ground for 24 minutes. ", 
        "Coco fights mma?", 
        "A heavyweight for the ages, in all the right places.", 
        "While Chael had more shots, I think Anderson did a lot more damage from guard.  Chael was eating a lot of elbows.", 
        "Hmm. It's been a long time and I only watched that fight the once. You may be right I cant remember. Fair enough. Was absolutely mind blowing at the time I remember though. ", 
        "I definitely agree it was mind blowing.  After his Anderson had been so dominant on his feet in so many fights, the Forest fight lol, it was truly a shock to see how well Chael fought.", 
        "Yeah we didnt know Chael too well and we were all like who the fuck is this guy talking bout how he's an American gangster and how he's going to take Anderson down and smash him. Then HE DID IT. From what I remember - i mean.. shit- he was winning every round and we all immediately became fans of Chael. I remember saying out loud, \"Who the fuck IS this guy?\" ", 
        "I don't think Chael ever really believed what he said.", 
        "Yet it worked against him since Spider only wanted to submit him and got it. ", 
        "yeah thats what happened. Anderson was just waiting for the perfect moment while he was getting beat to submit him. ", 
        "Go watch Like Water, the documentary on the lead up to the fight.  After Chael disrespected his BJJ, he swore he would do what it takes to submit him.", 
        "\"Like a boa constrictor\". Gimme a fucking break. ", 
        "Conor straight up thinks of shit to say to *sound* epic, right down to the dramatic pace and pauses of his sentences. It's fucking eyerolling, and so many people eat it up like he's some kind of monastic neo-Sun Tzu. \n\nThe dude needs to go *actual monk* and shut the fuck up and study for awhile.", 
        "\"I'm not changing or apologizing.\"\n\nIt won't end with his first defeat. Maybe his 3rd?", 
        "Nah chael walked around calling himself undefeated for years. It's just a persona these guys put on to hype fights. Conor's made it pretty clear his end game is money and he's doing a pretty good job apparently so I doubt he ever shuts up. Fine with me though. You can't deny the dude knows how hype a fight.", 
        "Why should he stop talking trash?", 
        "That was his third defeat", 
        "In the UFC.", 
        "Just noticed Conor's left hand is also trapped.", 
        "I mean sure he caught his leg but by pinning his arm that's where conner lost most is momentum from being able to pivot his shoulders enabling him to then stop his leg and control his position. That's pretty much the key part was trapping that arm. If you noticed, he trapped his arm and clinched it the same moment conner went to hop over, keeping him from going anywhere.", 
        "Arm in guillotine  but then you see him change it to the Power guillotine grip to sweep(the grip Jones choked Machida with) ", 
        "I think Conor is using his left shoulder to apply pressure to Nate's hip/quad/knee so that Nate can't lock up full guard and so that Conor can continue to try to pass side control and get out of the guillotine.  That's why Nate uses bottom leg (his left leg) to trap Conor and negate the pass.\n\nNate's also doing a great job of remaining on his side and not rolling flat onto his back.  The guillotine is stronger when you're on your side like Nate is here, which is why Nate sits to his hip at the beginning of the gif.  Nate beats Conor to every little detail in this exchange.", 
        "Holy shit...", 
        "Diaz is obviously a master at his craft. What a sight to see. Just beautiful.", 
        "\"git back over there motherfucker..\"", 
        "People look at the Diaz's and think they're either retarded or stoners. Really they just aren't the best at expressing themselves verbally. They're the best boxers in the sport and have such underrated jiu jitsu it's crazy.", 
        "Uh do people really under rate their bjj? No one wants to go to the ground with them. ", 
        "The only people who thought the Diaz's have underrated BJJ are the Mcgregor fan boys who believe everything he says. He don't even believe that shit... he hopes!", 
        "They are stoners tho", 
        "1000% in agreement. Nick actually is pretty articulate in some interviews. They're sharp fighters, and seemingly good dudes to boot. Also, notice that Kron Gracie is in his corner. What a beast he's turned into. \n\nI like both Diaz and McGregor, so I was happy for Nate, but sad to see the hype train come to a stop.", 
        "Sad that the UFC don't market them like they do McGregor because realistically they have the biggest following in the sport.", 
        "They're kind of hard to market based on how they talk and act in and out of the ring, but that's what makes them so popular with fans. Unfortunately, Nick has been on a downward slide the last few fights, even if we take out the NC against Silva. I can't wait for him to get back in the ring and see what the time off has done for his game.", 
        "If they were outside of america, where profanity isn't seen as something bad on tv, they would be huge\n", 
        "America- where you can punch each other in the face but you better be courteous while doing it", 
        "Conor also adopted one of the worst positions to get choked.\n\nhttp://i.imgur.com/gnucenV.png\n\nHe rolled onto  his elbows under his chest (lifting his head off the ground), and trapping his ability to defend. Diaz knowing all the tricks in the book, just popped a punch to the side of McGregors head and tucked his arm under the chin.\n\nhttps://giant.gfycat.com/EmptyContentHowlermonkey.gif\n\nOne of the things they teach you as a white / blue belt is choke defence. When you decide to roll away from mount, you typically put your hand palm outwards, against your cheek and tuck the chin - this can then block strikes and make it lot harder for someone to get the arm under (you use the palm to throw their arm off).\n\n", 
        "I honestly think Conor wanted to be choked out. Better lose with a submission than a knock out.", 
        "There is a breakdown on that sequence and Diaz set everything up to get there. [here](https://youtu.be/oqD-kdF7khU?t=47m42s)", 
        "I love how it looks like Diaz knows he has the choke but gets an extra head punch for good measure", 
        "Connor had to be completely gassed or he really did just give up. Even after nate flattens him onto his own arm it looks like he had an opportunity to get control of nates left wrists with his free hand which is a pretty basic way to defend a choke, would also stop or at least delay that last blow by nate as he locked in the choke.", 
        "I think it was just a way to get out of the fight. Good points though. ", 
        "Nice GIF. Nate wasted zero time going for that neck!", 
        "Wow I never noticed the left to the head that exposed Conor's neck for the choke.\n\nYou can also see Conor attempt the palm defense like you described but he does way way too late and the left hand is coming in to secure the choke by then.", 
        "> EmptyContentHowlermonkey.gif\n\nfitting description.", 
        "I think Conor wanted to be choked at the end there rather than KOed, that's why he gave up his back. if he got KOed he would not be at the post fight conference and media appearances to damage control. Better to tap than get a concussion and lose 6+ months off your career, that's really why guys \"become wrestlers\" when they're losing.. Also this way in future fights he can say he still has never been knocked out.", 
        "People do dumb things when they're rocked and desperate.", 
        "Kinda the opposite, it's smart to go to the ground and get choked out vs getting punched in the head another 50 times and being KOed, going to a hospital and missing the post fight conference opportunity to damage control, losing time off your career, etc.", 
        "I thought we were talking about the particulars of his ground game here. The decision to shoot is a different issue.", 
        "Excellent points from a BJJ standpoint. I truly do not think it mattered in this case. Once Nate connected with that left, it was only a matter of time. ", 
        "My honest opinion, Conor rolled to give nate the choke. He wanted out. ", 
        "I felt this way too. There's no way any brown belt didn't know what was coming, no matter how rocked. He wanted a way out. ", 
        "Then you have never been rocked before. Look at it again. He tried an escape as he flipped but didn't get control of a leg or arm. When you have no stamina left and just got rocked, you feel like when your in a dream and you fall down. No strength in your outer limbs. ", 
        "> When you have no stamina left and just got rocked, you feel like when your in a dream and you fall down. No strength in your outer limbs.\n\nI've only ever been KO'd twice in 8 years but I know that both times I was the fuck out cold. As far as getting 'rocked' it's happened enough to know that I wouldn't instantly forget all my skills - especially those you have drilled forever. \n\nI'm not saying he wasn't hurt, I'm saying that's the difference between high and jiu jitsu and whatever mcgregor has", 
        "100% agree. He gave up. ", 
        "I think so too, not only did he tap near instantly to the choke without even trying to get out, but he tapped to it twice the second time being right as Herb Dean stepped in.", 
        "yes I agree. I think he quit. He knew he was beat, and he wanted out.", 
        "He was knocked senseless.", 
        "Yep. \n\nHe wants in on that UFC 200 money, can't do that if Nate knocks him dead, which is exactly what was gonna happen and he knew it ", 
        "His brain had been bounced around his skull...all he was thinking about was covering up", 
        "Nah, he got hit and turned into a wrestler ", 
        "I don't think he was thinking about any of that, I think he was just panicked and freaked out and wanted to quit.", 
        "or he didnt want to get knocked the fuck out after he already lost. If you arent panicking in that situation then you are brain dead. Nate made his body quit, no matter how much Conor could have tried more or wanted more. That fight was over before he shot and he knew it, his stamina was gone and Nate was just getting going. Conor has a good enough chin where he would have been brutalized by the Diaz punching style for much longer than is reasonable before going down to it. I am extremely pleased with the way the fight ended.", 
        "So are you saying he panicked or that he didn't panick? Jesus, you guys are seriously losing all ability to think logically.", 
        "... he didnt \"quit\" he got beat down.", 
        "well thats kinda just facts, so your opinion is true. A spades a spade.\n\nHolly didn't want out, Conor wanted out and back into Uncle Dana's arms. Conor hugged Herb Dean after the fight and said thank you.", 
        "Difference is holly was winning on points until that last choke and losing meant losing the title, so she had to try anything to survive that final 90 seconds. Conor was rocked and out of gas in round 2 so he wasnt going the distance. He basically only took it to the ground to avoid getting KOed, better to tap than get a concussion and lose 6 months of training/sparring time.", 
        "I guess so, Conor quits fairly easy, I've seen more heart in the cage, Paige comes to mind off the top of my head, the most recent one i can think of, and theres many more. \n\nIt's too bad, lots of talk and great talent but no heart, its a shame.", 
        "What should he have done to prove he has 'heart'? Not tap? Not roll on his back and just let Diaz punch him? Taking more brain damage just to prolong the inevitable is retarded.", 
        "Fight through adversity or quit, Two choices.\n\nYou Can't Teach Heart\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qCJTzOXOjsI&app=desktop\n", 
        "> Fight through adversity \n\nHow would should he, technically, have done that? What could he have done to escape the choke? Do you consider anyone tapping from a choke to not have \"heart\"? Again: If you're in a position where you can't escape, why should you try to prolong the inevitable loss and risk brain damage instead of just tapping? Longevity is the key factor to having a long successful career as an athlete.", 
        "he dove to the ground and gave his back and tapped immediately, so that is where there was no heart, shooting for the take down and giving up and tapping instantly to end the fight and quit, like a bitch props to holly, no quit no regret. \n\nBrain damage from being choked out, I'm not a doctor but its not the same as getting smashed in the head or even close to it. Rogan talks about it couple times, passing out due a choke isn't that bad.\n\n", 
        "Getting choked into unconsciousness can be stupid. If the choke is deep enough, and you are 100% certain you cannot get out, why the hell shouldn't you tap? Not worth a medical emergency just so you can say you didn't quit.", 
        "Heart,\n\nHolly > Conor\n\n", 
        "What a brutal oversimplification. Getting choked until you blackout should not be something we encourage as fans. It's fucking dangerous. It's the same type of BS we've seen in the NFL with concussions. ", 
        "Blood flow to the brain and smashing your head are same thing?... do some research, head drama is not even in the same category as blood flow restriction to the brain for short period.\n\nConor has said it himself after Duffy I will never tap again because of the feeling of regret, some things are easier said then done. \n\nHe is the loin moving forward (-RDA) but a coward going backwards, opposite of Meisha", 
        "I'm not saying they're the same thing, i'm saying the thought process that causes athletes to recklessly endanger themselves is the same. Athletes will pointlessly endanger themselves to be seen as tough. ", 
        "while holly was still passed out trying to figure out where she was.", 
        "My honest opinion, he knew he wouldn't get a lengthy medical suspension if he got subbed and could be back for 200.", 
        "Rofl bc connor didn't try to take him down and would have mounted if it wasn't for his bjj.  Conor was thinking of surviving not ufc 200.", 
        "I would bet while mounted by Nate and getting punched in face the last thing on his mind was UFC 200.", 
        "When he was getting lit up on the feet it probably was on his mind, then the lazy shot.", 
        "You never know though. Weird things go through your mind under pressure.", 
        "The moment Conor went for the take down he knew the fight was over. I'm just surprised he didn't tap out as soon as Nate got the full mount. ", 
        "\"Oh you're a wrestler now?\"", 
        "It was just basic reaction. All this talk about him thinking on medical suspensions, UFC 200 and so on, is bullshit. He acted on pure instinct, trying to avoid getting knocked out. Problem was, that Conor's ground game instincts in a panick situation were very novice, clearly untested.", 
        "Compare his panicked defence to Gunnar Nelson defence against Damien Maia. Both panicked, both humiliating losses, but one definitely staying alive against arguably the best bjj artist alive (I hype him a little cause I'm a Gunny fan), and the other not surviving 30 secs against \"only\" a top 10 bjj (IMHO) ", 
        "well, getting punched makes anyone a novice, and that situation is exactly the time to hit the panic button. The best outcome in that situation is getting tapped. Conor was done and he knew it, his stamina was gone and he was wobbled and getting lit up. At that point his choices are tap out or get knocked out. ", 
        "I agree with the other guy, there was no assessment, no weighing of odds, just pure instinct and pain. ", 
        "for sure, at that point of exhaustion you are just trying to keep moving and survive", 
        "certainly better than being TKO'd and having a broken nose or some eye injury for sure. He flipped on his belly to get the least damage through the choke.", 
        "ahh yes the bitch out technique, very affective. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "So cash a cheque, and if it doesn't go your way quit, great fighter mentality.", 
        "-- Conors Casual Fans Mentality", 
        "Never trained BJJ in your life, I see. . .", 
        "I was trained by Conor :(", 
        "lmao", 
        "\"fuck this shit, I cannot not fight at UFC 200, fuck medical suspension, choke me out\"", 
        "lmao, if this is true conor is the GOAT businessman-fighter in the UFC", 
        "I actually sensed an air of defeatism in McGregor earlier as he was getting punched up with his hands down. The choke was deep so I don't think it was a quick tap, but he definitely wasn't making anything happen there leading up to the choke. ", 
        "He was badly hurt from the punches he'd taken. Anybody who has been hit hard before in any kind of sparring will attest to how it scrambles your brain and thinking straight as well as processing what is happening all becomes a helluva lot more difficult.", 
        "You're right. And also, like has been repeated. When fighting, you lose 80% of the skill you have in the dojo! (a little tongue in cheek, but I feel it's true) ", 
        "I know man I can't tell you how many of my buddies and how many comments I've read about Conor \"bitching out\" and tapping early. He was rocked, choke was deep as a RNC can get. Of course he tapped immediately, he was prob a second away from going to sleep. ", 
        "I hate how some fans judge sub taps based on perceived manliness...  Getting choked sucks.  Getting choked when you're exhausted, on 'queer street', and gasping for breath anyways leaves you a small window between feeling a forearm sneaking under your neck and feeling like you're gonna die from drowning.\n\nGet those punks in a locked Nate Diaz RNC with hooks in, let's see how real badasses would do it... Wiggle, pass out, and brown-squirt their pants is my guess.", 
        "Not a BJJ expert here, by any means, but isn't it also true that it's heavily reinforced that there's no shame in tapping if you're beaten?", 
        "In training yes. Some guys make it a point of pride to go to sleep. [Here](https://youtu.be/dQmAvBb8X5k?t=604) is Conor's coach Owen Roddy fighting back from the brink and escaping a crazy deep RNC. Conor has always said that he would rather die than give up in the cage after seeing this fight, and it appears he just didn't have the heart this time. I'm pretty soft, I tap quicker than I should maybe, but I remember one competition I decided I'd rather go to sleep than tap, and the second before i went out, he let the choke go. It was in a big tournament in front of my family and friends, as opposed to inter clubs, so there's more of an incentive sometimes. Maybe Conor couldn't find the motivation in him to go unconscious in front of such a big crowd, for no real reason.", 
        "Ain't no shame in tapping. It's dangerous not to", 
        "Few things are more retarded than not tapping when you know it's over.", 
        "Yes. Its dumb to choose brain damage, however minor. The idea that going out from getting choked is no big deal is dead wrong. People have had strokes and died in BJJ from getting choked unconscious. The brain blood loss itself causes cell damage from oxygen deprivation.", 
        "Yes. However, I will play devil's advocate (this is not meant to knock Conor, so hold off your downvotes, ye lynch mobbers) and say that Conor himself has said he is prepared to die in the ring. This changes the view on him tapping, in my eyes.", 
        "Nate is a BJJ wizard. If Conor doesn't tap from that position, there's zero doubt he will go out. Conor tapping was a smart move.", 
        "No, I agree with you - it was the smart move.\n\nI'm just playing devil's advocate. Conor has said in the past that he is ready to die in the ring, that he treats it like a fight to the death. If you treat it like a fight to the death, you must be cognizant that tapping means nothing and thus keep fighting till you're passed out. So, to be completely fair, I am just calling him out on something he said in the past. ", 
        "A properly applied submission is going to break something or stop the flow of blood to your brain: 'tap, nap, or snap' is a real thing.\n\nAt the point of an inevitable outcome there's really no reason to hold on.  Holly went to sleep throwing punches, which is kinda badass, but passing out doesn't make you look cool.\n\nYou're on the money. It's not even a 'tough guy' thing, you tap when you've lost or look like a tool.  No shame, no judgement.  Fighting a locked sub is dangerous and rarely beneficial in training.  Sometimes in MMA you'll see weestlers or strikers tap too early, maybe from training BJJ as a reflex.  On the whole though you know when you're too boned to keep going.", 
        "Shame or not, if I'm rolling and get caught I'd much rather tap than go dark or suffer joint/ligament damage.\n\nPeople who've never been in a submission hold likely don't realize how brutal they can be. I tried to be a tough guy when I was new and didn't tap from a guillotine. I blacked out briefly, puked and had a headache for 3 days.", 
        "I have gone out a few times, but its because it came on much quicker then I expected, and i honestly did not think they had position enough. Very weird to come round and not recall any of it. In fact people say 'you were choked out, and snorting like a pig', to which I honestly reply 'Are you sure?, I did'nt think it was on that deep enough'. \n\nI try to tap, as its just more sensible of course. But I expect I will get caught out again. Anything painful or contorting limbs ligaments, I tap as soon as they get position. ", 
        "I try to tap quickly after they've gained position but not immediately, as it doesn't help either person train.\n\nWhen I roll, I try to remember it's for training and don't go full strength on the holds. As a fresh white belt, nobody did this and we were all torquing on each other like it was life or death.", 
        "He rolled because the unknown was better than taking shots from Nate mounted.  Very common defense, and frequently results in RNC but better than getting punched out", 
        "I read this like Conor has some how won... Kinda like Conor did everything perfectly in every aspect / scenario and went out on top finishing the fight the proper way.\n\n", 
        "Only he didn't roll to defend, he rolled because he wanted out.", 
        "OK.", 
        "This is a good Point that I hadn't considered. If I had to choose between getting punched out and getting choked out,  I would choose the latter. ", 
        "If you give up your back you can still get punched but now you can't see where the punches are coming from and you can't deliver your own (albeit weak) strikes.", 
        "Yeah but you're not allowed to punch the back of the head so you can block the sides of your head and not take as much damage. Still a bad position but you're not going to take as much damage as you would from a guy in full mount. ", 
        "Exactly that rolling over to your stomach is a very natural panicked human response that people with no training will default to and what trained bjj artists look for.\n\nI was shocked to see Conor roll over like that so fast.", 
        "Conor admitted that he panicked in the post fight conference.  Something like \"Diaz went into autopilot mode when he got hit, I went into panic mode when I got hit\".\n\nI'm a fan of both guys and want to see them have long careers.  This is a good sign that Conor recognizes his own flaw so quickly.", 
        "I don't think it was a lack of skill or poor fight IQ. He was in a lot of danger, and took a gamble that he could fight his way out of rear mount... Which failed dismally. ", 
        "I don't know about it being a panic response from people with no training. Instinctually I would probably do the same because it was pounded into my head when I wrestled to always flip to your stomach the second your back hits the mat so you don't get pinned. ", 
        "If you watch enough videos of street fights you'll see people turn away from the guy mounting them in a panicked state and cover up. It's a natural response...", 
        "You're missing my point though. There are a fair amount of people who would do the same exact thing but not because of a panic response, because that's what they were trained to do.", 
        "Do you think Conor did that because it was a trained move? I saw a panicked response from a guy that didn't want to get punched in the face anymore.\n\nThere are times when rolling onto your stomach is the right tactical move, there are also many times when it is a panicked response. In this situation, and we are talking specifically about the Conor mcgregor fight, I believe it was a panicked response just like I have seen many times from untrained panicked fighters.", 
        "he knew it was over. his stamina was gone regardless and he could feel Nate was still heating up. No shame is acknowledging your circumstances and preserving your longevity.", 
        "Even the most trained martial artist will panic and have those same reactions as an untrained opponent when they're pushed to the brink, after being stunned, have their facesmashed in, and can't catch their breath.\n\nIf you look, McGregor doesn't just turn, he bridges and rolls which is legit escape attempt, but he doesn't trap the arm or the leg. He's just on a panicked autopilot and it backfires.", 
        "well, that is the time to hit the panic button, he knew he just had to keep trying till he got finished, but there was no way he could have come back from those punches and that ground assault", 
        "I guess he could Weidmann it and just take a beating for a 90s in full mount.\n\nI think you are under stating how tricky that situation is, as well as underrating how much Conor's dazed scrambled mind was affecting his decision making.", 
        "I don't understand what you are trying to say. Are you saying that wasn't a panicked response? It's a tough position to be in for sure, but as a fighter rolling onto your a stomach is even worse. Weidman should have been stopped way earlier but he stayed in that position because he didn't want to quit. Conor quit after a few shots, and rolled over. Its a natural human response to roll over and cover up, it's not something you would expect to see in a professional fighter, so quickly at least.", 
        "You actually think that giving your back is the same thing as quitting? Wow.", 
        "In this situation, yes. ", 
        "I think harcile was implying that you were giving too much credit to McGregor's mental capabilities at that point in the fight. It wasn't poor-yet-rational decision making. It was someone who was exhausted and stunned falling into undisciplined reactions to being punched in the head. ", 
        "Once in a full mount, you have to either survive it until the end of the round (not realistic here) or try to get out of it - throw them off. As you throw them off, you have to turn to get your hands on the matt and enable you to scramble. McGregor, dog tired and dazed, tried to throw Diaz off and failed and turned at the same time. You make out like there is some \"BJJ experts would do X\" answer to his predictament without realising it was exactly what McGregor attempted. He was trying hard and ended up in a bad spot, but was in a bad spot anyway. Get smashed up or go for broke, he went for broke and got subbed.\n\nThat you say he should have just stayed in full mount and gotten beaten up instead of \"quitting\" makes me think considerably less of you.", 
        "Conor was definitely panicking in the last seconds of the fight.  Its not like thats a bad thing though, he had to try something.  \n\n\nIf he didn't go for that sloppy takedown he probably would've gotten KO'd on the feet.\n\n\nIf he didn't turn his back and try to escape he would've been TKO'd within a couple seconds.  He was trying just to buy some extra time, but it didn't work out.  \n\n\nMcGregor did the opposite of quitting, he was trying to survive.\n\n\nYou see this happen to professional fighters all the time when they get rocked by a huge punch.  Even Fedor, and he wasn't even mounted.\n\n\n\nI guess he could've gone out like Holly did, though.  Technically he did quit.  ", 
        "Nice summary. You could tell with the quick tap that he was panicked. He was done tho, no realistic way out other than passing out.", 
        "Well, it wasn't pretty and obviously could have been stopped but yes, Weidman survived a lot longer than Conor did - exposing your back when being struck in mount is literally what the Gracie's end goal of jiujitsu was - slap from mount, ride to opponent's back when he rolls, choke. ", 
        "Wow, I completely missed that, good shit. That's why l love this subreddit. Thank you r/Mma. ", 
        "\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc40\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc40\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc40\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc40\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc40 good shit go\u0c66\u0501 sHit\ud83d\udc4c thats \u2714 some good\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4cshit right\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4cthere\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4c right\u2714there \u2714\u2714if i do \u01bda\u04af so my self \ud83d\udcaf i say so \ud83d\udcaf thats what im talking about right there right there (chorus: \u02b3\u1da6\u1d4d\u02b0\u1d57 \u1d57\u02b0\u1d49\u02b3\u1d49) mMMMM\u13b7\u041c\ud83d\udcaf \ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4c \ud83d\udc4c\u041dO0\u041e\u0b20OOOOO\u041e\u0b20\u0b20Oooo\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\u1d52\ud83d\udc4c \ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4c \ud83d\udc4c \ud83d\udcaf \ud83d\udc4c \ud83d\udc40 \ud83d\udc40 \ud83d\udc40 \ud83d\udc4c\ud83d\udc4cGood shit", 
        "Actually the slaps are the one I missed. This part and the sequence to back mount is what I remembered the most. I think it's because I am a BJJ nuthugger. ", 
        "Check out /r/bjj for more of this shit.", 
        "Which is what Nate hit him with before going home with a pocket full o' cash", 
        "Will do! Thanks.", 
        "\"I will smash his hips, pass his guard and choke him\" - Conor McGregor\n", 
        "Damn Conor giving away his game plan", 
        "\"What you lookin at? I'll strangle you. I'll strangle your whole team.\"", 
        "Legit black belt vs. a dubious brown belt who is gassed and had his brain rattled = that's a wrap", 
        "[Once again, was everyone asleep when this part of the fight happened?](https://gfycat.com/FlashyDefenselessAfricanrockpython) Am I actually taking crazy pills", 
        "The neckbeards in this sub love to hate on McGregor because he is a confident man, and they are betas. Of course they aren't going to mention positive things about him like how he dominated that ground series and started wailing on Nate. ", 
        "I think a popular opinion on that is Diaz let him because he is comfortable working from his back", 
        "And that popular opinion is bullshit and just an excuse that Nate doesn't need, he won the fight anyway. Nate clearly wasn't expecting that sweep that quickly and people are just in denial because they don't want to give McGregor any credit whatsoever.", 
        "I love McGregor. I still think Diaz let him. Not making any excuses for Diaz ", 
        "It's funny that everyone says Conor was comfortable on his back in his earlier fight, but they won't extend that to Nate.", 
        "I think what's incredibly is how easy Nate Diaz got that single in the first round. ", 
        "Yeah that was lazy, I was pretty surprised he didn't try and capitalize on that position harder.", 
        "Joe Rogan said himself a couple of times during the fight that he was surprised Nate didn't just pull guard because he's so dominant on the ground, even on his back.  \nIMO he is still in a favourable position after that sweep.", 
        "He's in a more favourable position balled against the cage on bottom than he is raining down punches on top? How can you actually think that?", 
        "Not that it's preferred over the previous position - but that he's still going to be better than Conor is there.  In other words, you don't want to be on the ground with Nate.", 
        "Diaz is pull down to his butt and then decide to pull McGregor into guard. Or is your proof of McGregor's BJJ the fact that he gets Diaz off-balance in the first place?", 
        "McGregor did a textbook sweep on him, I know if you don't do bjj it's difficult to understand but if you go over to that sub there's a big thread about it if you're bothered to actually learn.", 
        "because Conor is in much more danger in that situation than Diaz. He  wasn't taking any damage from Conor punches and he threatened several submissions. He is amazing off his back and doesnt mind being there at all especially against a COnor level of grappler", 
        "I don't think you're taking crazy pills, but I think we don't know how much Nate cared vs not cared being on the ground, even if a bottom position.\n\nNevermind the fact that was full guard, so, I don't think Nate was terribly pressed to fight that off.", 
        "Jesus, why are so many people acting like Nate let McGregor sweep him, you don't need to make excuses for him, he won the fight anyway. You don't willingly accept bottom position on the ground when you're raining down punches from a great position, that would be retarded. Also McGregor got out of his closed guard a second later, maybe everyone was asleep.", 
        "because they've watched more than one person fight and know that nate never fights tooth and nail to prevent every takedown.", 
        "One of Nate's best submissions is his triangle. He's good enough at it that he can submit guys without even pulling the head. In one fight, he even flipped off his opponent and started flexing both arms until his opponent tapped. When Conor got on top, Nate slid his leg up to the middle of Conor's back, setting up the triangle, while his corner was even screaming triangle. Had Conor not been holding Nate's other leg, he would have been likely caught in Nate's brutal submission. Nate has the advantage against Conor on top or bottom.\n\nSource: I've trained in BJJ for almost ten years and I had the opportunity to train with Nick once. The guys are incredibly skilled beyond most others in BJJ especially when it's mixed in with MMA. ", 
        "That doesn't mean he didn't get swept. Nate's great at bjj and he fought a great fight and won, but people are acting like it was McGregor's ground game that he needs to work on, when it's his headhunting and range against a longer fighter that he needs to work on.", 
        "I agree that his main problem was the headhunting against the longer fighter. But about Nate getting swept, do you know how in bjj when higher belts roll with lower ones, and they let them start in an advantageous position? Or how great bjj'ers can kick without fear of a takedown because the don't mind playing guard? Do you think Nate would continue to punch his head as hes getting swept with no base, if he feared being on his back?", 
        "is it fair to say he should work on both?", 
        ">dubious\n\nIf you're going to make these sort of claims, you really should be backing them up. I know this sub-reddit loves to shit on McGregor's BJJ, but the fact remains that we simply haven't seen enough of McGregor's ground game to make any sort of educated assessment. ", 
        "Even with the little that has been seen of his ground game, I dont think that \"dubious\" is far fetched. Mendez had his way with him on the ground and Nate just played with him. ", 
        "Are you seriously using this fight as a means to asses his BJJ? The Mendes fight is the most we've seen and while I agree it was in no way impressive, he didn't actually attempt much. Seemed to me like he was just waiting to get the stand up.", 
        "Well all 3 of Conor's losses have come way of submission. I have not seen the first one but that was 8 years ago (lots of time for Conor to improve). The second one was from Joseph Duffy who isn't even known for his ground game at all. The video of that one is pretty embarrassing for Conor as he looked like he had never rolled with someone before.\n\nConor isn't bad on the ground but he isn't better than your average brown belt. Nick on the other hand is a top level black belt who has been training with the best of the best in BJJ for years at this point. Those little tricks like that leg trap are almost always going to catch Conor because he does not have the experience to avoid them.\n\nOne of the biggest misconceptions about grappling is that people think they can take a top level striker and turn them in to a competent grappler in a very short period of time. No, that just doesn't happen, like ever. Look at Holly, yeah she defended most take downs but the ones that Meisha did end up getting her to the ground with Holly was pretty much outclassed in every way giving her back up both times.", 
        "He didn't have any ground game for that first submission, he's talked about it in interviews he didn't work on/fall in love with jiu-jitsu until he had been submitted in MMA, Duffy fight was 2 years later, guy was a beginner.\n\nYou acting like you know whether he's better than the average brown belt is stupid. You don't.\n\n", 
        "I train BJJ with all experience levels (mostly gi). Conor is no better than an average brown belt. Getting stopped in that leg trap, letting his left arm get controlled, and trying to hop in to side control are blue belt level mistakes. Also his grappling has always been suspect.", 
        "Do you punch their ability to defend themselves out of them before training? Because you're judging his jiu-jitsu based on his performance after getting his brain rattled to the point where he had nothing to offer in the standup which is his strongest area.\n\nOh and his grappling has not been suspect in the UFC, that guillotine escape of his in the Mendes fight was great and the rest of the time he was clearly choosing to just maintain guard and conserve energy.\nHe's dominated everyone else he's grappled with in the UFC, including Diego Brandao who is a black belt. (but whose ability was impaired by getting punched first of course)", 
        "Yes we do in fact, it is called sparing. Going round after round without stopping tends to gas you out and make you act on instinct and ability, especially against better opponents. Sure it is not the same as getting the shit knocked out of you but yes we do work ourselves to the point of being exhausted/gassed and still roll.\n\n>His grappling has never been suspect in the UFC\n\nDid you watch the Mendes fight, he had NOTHING for Mendes on the ground. He drilled a guillotine escape, that was about it.\n\n>his previous two submission losses were before he was even a purple belt and completely irrelevant.\n\nThey are relevant because it happened. It isn't like Conor as a fighter has changed a whole lot from those days. His skills have gotten much better but his tendencies are exactly the same. Go watch the Duffy fight, he threw that same uppercut he did 6 years ago a bunch against Diaz.", 
        "I said punch, there's no punching in BJJ and you're right it's not the same, you trying to compare trying to grapple while concussed and grappling while tired is idiotic.\n\nConor as a grappler has changed a whole lot from those days, he was already a very good boxer back then so that part has changed less.", 
        ">Conor as a grappler has changed a whole lot from those days\n\nYeah no doubt about that but it isn't on some crazy progressive route people think he is on. He is a brown belt and for good reason. It takes on average 10 years to get a black belt in BJJ. He has not been training with the highest level out there, some good partners but nothing what Nate has been exposed to for most of his life.", 
        "Seems at least a little far fetched he went from pretty much clueless to brown belt in four years, especially when at the time of the Duffy fight he was supposedly already two years in. ", 
        "You do realise that the Duffy bout was 5 years ago, right? Look, I'll say it again. I'm NOT saying McGregor is a good grappler. Hell, I'm not saying he is even competent. What I AM saying is that we haven't seen enough of his grappling to draw a definitive conclusion. FTR, I never said anything about Nate's BJJ, which is obviously world class.", 
        "Agreed. He doesn't seem completely lost. But from the samples we have. He isn't very good against good grapplers. Mendes and Diaz didn't have any trouble with him.", 
        "Well he beat Mendes, and Diaz hardly grappled with him (fight was over by the time it went to the ground in the second round)", 
        "He did beat Mendes just due to surviving until he was gassed. He was still dominated on the ground.\n\n", 
        "I dunno about 'dominated'. He pretty much got taken down and just stayed there. Dominated suggests Mendes did significant damage or was able to submit him. He defo got points for taking down Conor but he didn't really do much.\n\nIt was the takedowns that were impressive. Once he had him, on his back, not much happened outside the eye gouge and a few elbows.", 
        "I'm pretty sure mendes only tried to pass guard once and failed. ", 
        "He had a brilliant escape, didn't get his guard passed, managed to stand up a couple of times against a great wrestler, how is that dominated?", 
        "If we're going to ignore the context of the Mendes fight, then he lost by submission in the Diaz fight. IMO he was outscored on the ground with Mendes. Both times it hit the ground in the Diaz fight, Diaz was very clearly the smarter BJJ fighter.", 
        "He was outscored by both, sure, but both are very good on the ground and there's not a lot to base an assessment of Conor's ground game on.\n\nWhat you said though, \"mendez and diaz didn't have any trouble with him\", just isn't true imo. One of them got knocked out by him.", 
        "Diaz used grappling and clinch strategy a good bit the duration of the fight", 
        "At no point was it particularly impactful though, at least compared to the other factors (primarily boxing).", 
        "I would say it all matters in a fight like that and Nate was mixing it up. There were a few reasons Conor was so tired and the bigger Nate Diaz leaning clinching him and taking him down were a big part of it. The amount of punches Nate made Conor miss and  absorbed on his guard and forehead was massive factor in Conor's fatigue as well.", 
        "Yeah agreed, that's fair.\n\nHard to assess to what extent it was impactful though. I mean he was fucked pretty early on - maybe putting on that much weight, and then hopping around and trying to do the same high-pressure lots-of-kicks loading-up-on-lefts thing just doesn't work.\n\nIs there much precedent for this kind of thing? Are there any examples of athletes gaining ~25 pounds in 3 months and being competitive at the top level straight away? Maybe Diaz tired him out, maybe his body just couldn't carry around that weight in a high-intensity 50minute spell. ", 
        "He actually walks around about 172 so he wasnt really that much bigger.", 
        "He was loads bigger. Look at him.\n\nWalk around weight =/= ring weight, and never has. Your walk around weight includes a bunch of weight that you lose during a camp. Even fighters that don't do crazy weight cuts still cut a load of weight - his walk around weight has little to do with his fight weight.\n\nHe gained a lot of weight for the fight. Anyone who claims otherwise isn't paying attention.", 
        "He means that Nate's black belt came from Cesar Gracie, while McGregor's brown belt came from John Kavanagh.  Color aside, which do you think holds more value?", 
        "Who are these people?\n\nEDIT: I hate how you have to frame every question in a premptively defensive way or you will get downvoted to hell. If you don't want to upvote a question, leave it alone. Make that a rule of thumb for yourself.", 
        "Are you serious? \n\n[Cesar Gracie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cesar_Gracie_Jiu-Jitsu), [Gracies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gracie_family).    \n[Kavanagh's gym, SBG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straight_Blast_Gym_-_Ireland).", 
        "Funny how the Gracies aren't legit until /r/MMA wants them to be.", 
        "I don't even know anything about MMA, I just watch documentaries about martial arts.    \nThe Gracie's were one of the first names I came across when looking into BJJ.   \nIIRC some dudes went to train in many martial art disciplines, the episode for jujitsu and Brazilian jujitsu were with the Gracies. \n\nAre they usually dismissed in /r/MMA? ", 
        "Yeah cause as time went on they supposedly got very commercialised. Some did some didn't. But people are saying a black belt from Kavanagh doesn't mean anything, he's notoriously harsh on gradings. He does seem to hold the MMA fighters to a gentler standard than pure bjj guys in SBG. ", 
        "Yes, I'm serious. Not everybody is inundated in the culture, you pretentious asshole.\n\nThanks for the answer. :)", 
        "Hes not being pretentious. Not knowing who the Gracies are is like being a scientist and not knowing who Abert Einstein is or being into guns and not knowing who John Browning is. When I first got into MMA the Gracies were some of the first people I learned about.", 
        "Well I'm just first getting into MMA. I ain't the only one with this recent McGregor fight. Stop downvoting questions.", 
        "That's completely beside the point. v89_cs was saying McGregor is a \"dubious\" brown belt i.e. \"Not really brown belt level\" when they really cannot tell. They even replied saying Conor would get \"smoked\" in a BJJ Purple Belt tournament (even though he competed at the Europeans as a purple belt), but quickly deleted the comment (surprise, surprise).", 
        "He was awarded his brown belt for his KO win over Poirier. That's pretty fucking dubious.", 
        "Holy shit you people are fucking ignorant, his win over Poirier had nothing to do with it.", 
        ">10: \"I didn't even grapple to get a brown belt! I must be the best brown belt on Earth!\" (from UFC 178 post press)\n\n>Following McGregor's win over Dustin Poirier at UFC 178, his coach John Cavanaugh awarded him his brown belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu despite the fact that the fight never even came close to hitting the ground and his victory came by way of knockout. \n\nIt's like when they give an honorary degree to Shaq or something. Do you really think he earned it?", 
        "He was joking.\n\nHad earned it whether he won or not, the fight was completely irrelevant, his teacher just chose that moment to give it to him.\n\nJust like when you actually get spanked with a belt in a ceremony in the gym it's not because you passed some kind of test, teacher has already decided beforehand after evaluating you in training", 
        "Look, all anyone is saying is that his brown belt isn't showing up in his actual skills. He's a tough dude in the standup, but his ground game has been shown to be suspect time and again. Now that Nate has exposed him, I expect we'll see more of this from his competitors, especially if he tries to fight at 155 again, or if he fights Frankie Edgar.\n\nRemindMe! 6 months \"Was Conor exposed?\"", 
        "Nate didn't expose anything. If you are judging Conor's BJJ when he was rocked and gassed, you're being pretty harsh on him.", 
        "https://vimeo.com/158149284 \"Conor's jiu-jitsu is very very good\" - Eddie Bravo", 
        "I will be messaging you on [**2016-09-07 20:21:34 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2016-09-07 20:21:34 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49cs4y/nates_leg_trap_stoping_conor_from_passing_to_side/d0r5im2)\n\n[**CLICK THIS LINK**](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49cs4y/nates_leg_trap_stoping_conor_from_passing_to_side/d0r5im2]%0A%0ARemindMe!  6 months ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.\n\n^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! d0r5jfe)\n\n_____\n\n|[^([FAQs])](http://www.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^([Custom])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^([Your Reminders])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^([Feedback])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^([Code])](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)\n|-|-|-|-|-|", 
        "He's gone and visited legit BJJ gyms and rolled with everyone and got respect from legit black belts, excuse me for not hopping on the idiotic \"not a proper brown belt\" bandwagon.\n\nIf you mean his ground game in the Mendes fight I don't agree it was suspect, his guillotine escape in particular was brilliant and Mendes didn't pass his guard.\nOther than that fight he never got into a grappling exchange he didn't 100% win in the UFC.", 
        "Add to it that he got awarded Brown for a KO on Poirier", 
        "Completely ignorant about how you earn a belt much?\nHe had earned it whether he won or not, the fight was irrelevant.", 
        "No, are you? Guys get BJJ belts for winning MMA fights from certain coaches. McGregor's coach is apparently one of those guys. Rashad getting his black belt was the same way. It happens especially in the higher ranks of MMA. We even had a meeting at my gym one day about it where my coach made it clear that would never happen at our school", 
        "https://vimeo.com/158149284 \"Conor's jiu-jitsu is very very good\" - Eddie Bravo", 
        "Dude, didn't you know that beating up midgets with a standing KO is one of the cornerstones of BJJ?", 
        "He wore those green pants cause thats his bjj belt", 
        "And he says he's a brown belt because he's full of shit", 
        "This guy's got the right idea. He wore the brown pants!", 
        "\"I'm the black belt in jiu-jitsu and you're shooting on me?\"", 
        "With all due respect.", 
        "\"Oh, you're a wrestler now?\" ", 
        "Love how everyone cracked up. Edgar was loving that shit.", 
        "You know he's gotta be licking his chops.", 
        "Thanks for pointing all these little things out for the untrained eye. Makes the casual fan like me appreciate the sport more.", 
        "I hope BJJ/Ground game/Grappling gets the attention it deserves. Most casual fans boo fighters when they are stuck in the ground and moving inch by inch. That shit is like chess.", 
        "Isn't that just called half guard?", 
        "Not half no.  Just a hook,  a bottom hook at that which makes it all the more impressive.  In bjj when someone is passing in this position more often than not you see that top foot hook inside the elbow of the knee because it's easier,  closer to the knee,  and let's the bottom person easily turn into half guard. \n\nThis is more impressive as you can see the thought behind it.  He can't get that top foot in there to hook so he has to kick his bottom foot back to hook and stop the pass.  If Conor passed he would negate the guillotine and have a more offensive position in side control. ", 
        "no sir, if that's a guard it'd be like a weird empty donkey half.\n\nempty because its so low on the leg ( ankle area ) and donkey because nate would be backwards if he closed up that guard to their thighs.\n\nEven though thats what you would call that, it still doesnt exist because the only point of it was to stop conor from moving left, but it doesnt really stop him from moving any other direction.\n\nedit: was trying to name it as if it was a guard", 
        "Oh really? Is this called empty donkey half? I thought it was like a butterfly hook to prevent him from passing. TIL", 
        "> empty donkey half\n\n> butterfly hook\n\nBoth are wrong. Pretty sure that's called an upper iguana half monkey circle.", 
        "Man, I just realized we are talking about animals here. Weird. ", 
        "I was saying if it was considered a guard thats what it would be related to where everything is haha, i only had .5 cups of coffee when i used words there", 
        "Ive usually seen it referred to as  reverse half. Caio does some good stuff from there ", 
        "Yup. This position isn't really one you go to or work from a lot, but it shows up in rolling. Nate's instinct from years of rolling and fighting informed of how to counter that pass to the back. A general rule of thumb is to catch one of the legs in transition, and Conner's legs were pretty available.\n\nFor reference, this is what (traditional) half guard looks like: http://imgur.com/aiHu6bd \n\nThere are a ton of variations and places to go from half guard, but this is what people typically mean when they say it. Instead of having full guard, you have one leg trapped, ideally working for this underhook. Also, this person has more of a lock-down leg position (left foot ready to grapevine the ankle), but there a bunch of different variations on foot placement as well.  ", 
        "Don't downvote a man for asking a question. We're here to talk.", 
        "What is the diameter of the earth in nautical miles?", 
        "Point taken. Here's your downvote.", 
        "No. In half guard you're more or less facing inside, towards your opponent. Nate's facing completely away, but he traps Conor's leg to keep him from circling behind to side control. If Conor had been able to do that Nate would have lost the leverage on the guillotine that allowed him to reverse the position.\n\nNinja Edit: The leg entanglement that Nate grabs here is called \"empty half\".", 
        "More posts like this please. ", 
        "/r/bjj ", 
        "A black belt will do the right thing with zero thought 10x more than a decent grappler will do on purpose.", 
        "Nate isn't dumb, he has a speech impediment. ", 
        "The move of the fight brought to you by Hardcore Henry. ", 
        "Did they even show the movie? They mentioned it by name 100 times but I don't remember even seeing any preview of it. It actually is probably an entertaining action movie similar to Crank, and it's produced by by that Timur guy who made Wanted so he knows how to do good action stuff. But annoying people with \"Head-On\" style repetition is bad marketing in 2016.", 
        "God did Goldie realise how annoying that was, \"Critics say Hardcore Henry is a mix of Call Of Duty, etc, etc...\" ", 
        "Probably.\n\nBut he also knows the paychecks stop if he doesn't his job.", 
        "Does he have to repeat the whole thing over and over though, I don't mind just \"sponsored by Hardcore henry\".", 
        "If Dana and the sponsor tell him to, yes, that's his job.\n\nOff mic he's probably telling Joe how stupid this is.", 
        "I'm never watching that movie now.", 
        "it feels exhausting for my eyes and brain. possibly my stomach.", 
        "I'll be the *first person* in line.", 
        "You'll be the only person in line.  :p", 
        "his statement stays true", 
        "Conor was playing checkers while Nate was on the mat playing chess", 
        "This is a really weird comparison to make. Or am I missing some kind of saying or something here?", 
        "Probably a reference to soflo's stupid quote.. Something like \"everyone is playing checkers but I've been playing chess for years\" or something.. He's a Facebook personality famous who recently was a bit exposed as a douche by H3H3s youtube videos..", 
        "compare chess to checkers... chess is way more indepth and more \"advanced\" than checkers.", 
        "But it just seems like a really odd comparison. Surely it would be better to say that Nate is a Grand Master whilst Connor is just a Master at the same game. \n\nThe only thing that's the same in the original comparison is the board. Beyond that they're two entirely different games with completely different rules. ", 
        "conor and nate are on entirely different playing boards when in comes to BJJ.", 
        "No, they're on the same board but Nate is the better player. ", 
        "they're really not in the same playing field, there just not, striking they are, but definitely not in there ground game.", 
        "One is better. That is the point. They're playing the same game but at very different levels. Hence Nate is a better player. If you say they're playing different games that just makes no sense. It would be like me saying Nate was playing chess whilst Conor was playing Golf. Makes no sense because they are entirely different games. ", 
        "The whole point of my analogy was to illustrate how much more advanced Nate was over Conor. Sorry if you thought it didn't make sense. Most people did and up voted it.\n\nThink of teaching both of these games to a three year old. You teach him checkers and he gets the hang of it really quickly. All the pieces pretty much move the same and there are not that many rules. Then if you try teaching him chess, it would take him longer to figure things out. Things like how each piece moves differently, some pieces move certain ways only under certain conditions, pieces work in unison to slowly pick apart their opponent. It takes most people years and years of studying and practice to master chess. \nSo yes, you could say Conor is a chess expert and Nate is a true Master. Both ways work. I am sorry you don't understand the analogy", 
        "i give up.", 
        "I'm agreeing with you that Nate is better at BJJ, he clearly is. What I'm saying is that by saying Nate was playing Chess and Conor was playing checkers you remove that fact because they're entirely different games. There's no skill compairson there because how do you rate a chess player on their checkers ability and vice versa. \n\nThe real comparison would be that they're playing the same game (Chess) but Nate played with the skill of a grand master and Conor played with the skill of just a master. ", 
        "Pretty sure it's a reference to soflo's quote.. Just a meme", 
        "Reference to SoFlo ", 
        "There was a Conor fanboy on here on Friday saying Conor's BJJ was as good as Nate's.", 
        "Obviously it's not but there are dozens of scrubs in here saying that Conor's brown belt is fake just because it comes from John Kavanagh - who was Ireland's first ever black belt and trained under Matt Thornton who trained under Chris Hauter, one of the first non Brazillian's to ever get a black belt. Conor's brown belt is as legit as any - it's just that there are levels to this shit and Nate is quite a few levels above your average black belt, who is above the average brown belt. However, even an average brown belt will fucking destroy most people on the mat. ", 
        "I think that's what people forget. McGregor is a fairly recent brown belt. His grappling isn't bad, it's just not elite. And the fighters we all compare him to (Mendes, Frankie, Aldo, Nate...) are nearly all elite grapplers.\n\n*Ninja Edit:* I do think Kavanaugh awarding him a brown belt in the cage for a fight that he won by knockout was a weird move. Conor also rarely does BJJ competitions (although he has done a few) and hasn't really shown much game off his back at all. Kavanaugh is legit but it's not inconceivable that he may have promoted Conor a bit early.", 
        "If he was ready to get his brown belt then it's just a fun thing to give it to him after winning a fight, makes it even more special. I don't see a problem with it. ", 
        "Schmoove....", 
        "Yep, years of rolling will do that to ya.", 
        "daaaaammnnn", 
        "He also deftly switches from the arm-in guillotine to the power palm-to-palm guillotine grip which rolls them both over and puts Nate on top", 
        "Ninja shit", 
        "Gazelle's are smarter than Lions ", 
        "This is america ", 
        "I keep seeing gazelles brought up. Weird considering no one knows what that is.", 
        "The funniest thing about that is that Nate had no idea what Conor was talking about the entire time.", 
        "Saw another good one. Picture Nate and Nick googling gazelles and Nick says \" so, it's like a pampered ass deer?\" ", 
        "i know what a gazelle is they're sick at BJJ and smoke weed with slickkkk boxing ", 
        "I mean... This is America right? Who the fuck knows what a guhzell is?", 
        "Funniest comment I saw during the build up. Right after that moment.\" I did know what a gazelle is, but as soon as Nate said this was America, I forgot. And now I refuse to re-learn.\"", 
        "It cuts off in this gif, but Diaz also times the moment Conor decides to hand fight. By the time he realized Nate was sweeping him, it was too late to post. ", 
        "That's not why he got flipped over. Diaz bridges his hips up and over which puts twisting pressure on Conor's neck and forces him to roll himself.", 
        "Amazing reaction by Nate's right leg there, that's the kinda \"flinch\" you get after rolling with top guys for over a decade.", 
        "It looks like he missed with the first leg and then caught him with the other half a second later. So slick. ", 
        "That is so awesome, shows the difference in jiu jitsu skill, Conor was doing the right thing to defend the guillotine by moving to side control but Nate has been grappling for way longer than Conor and could see it coming.", 
        "But I thought Conor said he'll just smash pass Nate's hips and ground and pound the shit out of him", 
        "I know Conor has a lot of confidence, but I'm sorry it's hilarious that he talked shit about someone with world class BJJ skills and then got completely outclassed and choked the fuck out.", 
        "Now THAT is an impressive detail. Great find!", 
        "Amazing! Hey Conor, stop playing touchbutt in the park and work on getting that black belt in BJJ.", 
        "For the BJJ experts out there, what should Conor have done differently in that position? Was trying to roll out of the guillotine like he did his only option? ", 
        "Would definitely love to see a gracie breakdown of this roll ", 
        "Purple belt here. Nate had an arm in guillotine but no real guard. That position you need a guard to torque the choke. He put that leg there not to regain guard, but to buy him that split second to switch the high elbow no arm guillotine. This choke is fucking deadly and will finish a guy even if he's in side control. Conor felt that and had no choice but to roll and find space in the scramble. Conor was fine where he was and should have used leverage of top position to avoid that grip change Nate made. The head and arm Nate had in that particular position was not dangerous yet", 
        "As the saying goes, \"You messed up a long time ago.\"   By the time Nate has Conor's leg trapped with his two legs (notice Conor's left arm is trapped in Nate's legs, too), Nate is already applying the high-elbow guillotine (made famous by [Marcelo Garcia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNmcdBoJP68)).  This guillotine is one of the tighter, faster blood chokes out there.\n\nSo, Conor can't really smash pass here, because his arm is trapped and he just doesn't have the time.  I think gator rolling like he tried and attempting to scramble (which Conor was very good at in the Mendes fight) is great instinct and a good solution.  Unfortunately, he's trying to do it against Nate Diaz.  \n\nWhen someone Diaz's caliber puts a tight choke on like that, it's like having a timer start.  You've got less than 10 seconds until the lights go out.", 
        "In no way an expert but here goes. First off, BJJ is hard enough when you're fully conscious, nevermind rocked. He did pretty much everything correctly trying to escape. He went to the opposite side of the choke, Nate just managed to trap a leg and block the pass. Personally, at this stage, I'd have gone REALLY heavy on my hips and adopt a wide base to try and stabilise the position as Nate would have a hard time being able to finish him from here (notice how he gave up on the choke almost right away?) and Conor could have stalled and recovered a bit. Such is BJJ though that this one minor detail resulted in a sweep that lead to the submission and the end of the fight. Fucking beautiful in a way, isn't it?", 
        ">(notice how he gave up on the choke almost right away?)\n\nI don't think he gave up the choke, I think he was adjusting his grip for a high elbow guillotine. ", 
        "Quite possible, but I meant he gave up on that particular choke. An arm-in guillotine is very hard to finish in that position.", 
        "Gotcha, ya you would need a nasty squeeze to finish it from that position. ", 
        "For sure. Need to work on them myself. They're so useful when you get them, though. It's crazy how many times a guillotine opportunity presents itself compared to other submissions.", 
        "I think his best option would be to fight the leg trap and still try to get to side control, but Diaz is all over him making that difficult. Look how McGregor's left arm is trapped by Diaz, that takes away a lot of his ability to work his way around to the left side. Can't let this happen if you're Conor. Bad spot for McGregor at this point, and he's really just outclassed (and beat up/has mentally quit at this point).\n\nFew years of BJJ, no expert. Would love to hear opinions from others with more experience.", 
        "The way I see it is that Conors real problem is that he didn't pop up to his feet to do the pass. Popping up on the toes and pressing down with your shoulders relieves pressure on your neck and makes trapping your legs a lot harder. Conor did a lazy version of that and it would work on most lower belts but not against a black belt like Nate. It was just to simple and one dimensional", 
        "Beautiful catch. Thank you! This is arguably the key move in the fight :)", 
        "That's pretty slick, from the other angle I wondered why he didn't wrap the top leg over the hip and figured he just had his head wrapped up too tight for Conor to move.\n\nDamn these guys with long limbs.", 
        "Even if Mcgregor stapled the bottom leg before he passed his right leg, I bet Nate would quickly escape side control and the fight would continue on their feet. \n\nIt'd be interesting to see if Conor would have went for another takedown or if he kept it standing. Either way, it'd be a TKO/Submission victory for the 209", 
        "That's insane", 
        "Thing of beauty.", 
        "That's what happens when you roll with a black belt. ", 
        "Miesha had a decent trap to prevent Holm from getting up before that RNC, too. ", 
        "Meisha held that choke like her life depended on it", 
        "\"stuck in the mud division\" ", 
        "I remembering seeing this and thinking, \"Sure, Conor knows what he's doing, or at least, what he should be doing, but Nate isn't even thinking about it. Nate just scorched Conor on that pass attempt with what looked like a reaction or a fucking instinct.\" ", 
        "Also notable - his whole inverse guard in the 1st round. How many MMA dudes ever use that?", 
        "Nice i love vids like this cuz i never see it until its explained to me. I want to take jiu jitsu just to understand..", 
        "There is so much going on there that to type it out would take a few minutes I don't have. So I will leave it at this\n\nBrilliant Jiu-Jitsu!", 
        "Braz-illiant Jiu-Jitsu", 
        "It really shows Nate's skill.", 
        "Mcgregor actually began to move to the correct side for a typical guillotine escape. Nate slipped in a hook to prevent the pass but its also there to create a sweep if the guillotine isn't there completely, Nate had his left arm sunk so deep and based off the fact he blocked McGregor from passing, the standard guillotine was no longer there positionally so he switched to a a wrist push which left McGregor only one way out, and that was to flip over but Nate's hook ensured a more controlled sweep/escape wherein he could land on top ready to position to side control.\n\nJust beautiful and he was thinking way ahead on the spot. Excellent!", 
        "Seriously. This description and the clip you posted really shows not only Nate's skill but his artistry. What a beautiful piece of work. The whole sequence should be titled \"Two Bodies in Motion.\" Good stuff, OP.", 
        "Oh, so you're a wrestler now?", 
        "Diaz's are always so slick they're like gangster-greaser hybrids. What a high level of situational awareness on Nate's part, he make it look so effortless.. ", 
        "A thing of beauty right there!", 
        "BJJ Wizard", 
        "the whole time I thought Conor wore the same green short in his fight with Aldo, apparently he did not. ", 
        "I'll never doubt Nate's skill level again. He's much improved from the last few fights I watched of his. I saw him get destroyed by Dos Anjos and thought that he was done. He's much better technically that I though. Both this his striking and Jiu Jitsu. I was really impressed how he went after Conor. Even though Conor fought like shit. He went full Anderson Silva that fight and ended up getting rocked because of it. Not to mention the Ronda Syndrome of feeling \"unstoppable\". Those who feel unstoppable are the ones who get stopped.", 
        "RDS also had a better strategy against Nate. Nate has holes in his game, taking punches in the face is not one of them...", 
        "Bendo showed how to beat Nate.  Just punch his knees.", 
        "Man, this is why I love this sub.\n\nPosts like this one sheds light on an overlooked technique that was a crucial part of the finish.\n\nThanks. Have an upvote.", 
        "can we get a full gif of this + the sweep he used to get into side control , then mount?", 
        "What's that saying? If boxing is the sweet science, then BJJ is quantum physics...", 
        "boxing is chess; BJJ is Go.", 
        "Diaz has been a black belt since Conor was a rookie to the sport. \n\nI was surprised that Conor tried to stay in his guard at the end of the first while his corner was even yelling for him to back away. Even on top he was at a serious disadvantage.\n\nI seriously think that Conor viewed himself as an advanced ground fighter going into this fight. He had some success being on top in the past, but only after he rocked his opponent like in the Brandao fight. He certianly got a lesson in what it is like to be out classed in grappling.\n\nI hope he takes the his jiu jitsu training seriously, because at this point he is not going to be able to scramble out against high level grapplers in his fights going forward. I would hate to see hubris get the better of him, making this a consistant problem. \n\nHe will face the same problems with Edgar and RDA if those fights happen.  I would say RDA is even more advanced on the ground than Diaz. \n\nI am interested to see how Conor adjusts his training from here. If I were him, I would take a break with movement training for a while and substitute that with jiu jitsu and wrestling/judo since the movement training isnt stopping him from getting hit anways. Seems like it's a bit of a waste while more important aspects of his game were being neglected.", 
        "looks like he slapped his balls with his feet also. i didn't see he trapped conors arm too before this gif. shiit wut", 
        "Rolling with kron gracie helps.", 
        "ya i noticed that! Didnt know Kron was hanging out with them.  Kron is a beast on the ground. I think he is going to be stepping into the ring soon", 
        "he's currently at Rizin fighting I believe.", 
        "101", 
        "I get that but the most common defense when someone is mounted is to roll over. You see it constantly", 
        "I wondered why he didn't pass to side control, but totally forgot to look at the legs. Thank you for pointing that out.", 
        "The product of thousands of hours on his back.. it becomes almost automatic.  You can't learn something like that overnight, and even if you can to have the presence of mind to apply it at the right time, takes a lot of practice.", 
        "Awesome little detail I didn't even notice, great catch! If Conor got side control here, the fight might've ended little different. ", 
        "As someone who is relatively new to watching the sport, was it also cool that Diaz basically punched McGregor's head into the choke, or is that normal? Because it looked really cool. ", 
        "very normal. Its part of the training in BJJ just you dont actually do it in training. It is not like hitting the head in that position takes a lot of skill", 
        "Thanks for the info! Is there a name for that? I'm trying to get up on my lingo so I can follow what Joe Rogan is saying.", 
        "its just striking but if you watch BJJ guys rolling for MMA they will lightly slap the head. ", 
        "I noticed. That's the small details that separate the best from the good. ", 
        "That's some ninja shit, right there. Invisible to the common viewer. ", 
        "he also trapped his left arm as well, this is why i respect technical fighters over strikers, little details what you can't pick up on until you really slow it down, strikers are more entertaining imo though, i can understand that shit.", 
        "That spatial awareness is insane.", 
        "Nates BJJ is beautiful.\n\nI hope he becomes a superstar now.", 
        "That's fucking dope", 
        "John Danaher was asked in an interview why the GSP camp was worried about Jake Shields' Jiujitsu in the lead up to the fight if both fighters were black belts. He replied \"yes but you must understand, there's blackbelts and then *there's blackbelts*\"", 
        "was it ever revealed specifically what aspect JS threatend GSP? \n\n\u201cJake Shields is better than both of them in one particular aspect, which I can\u2019t talk about immediately before the fight. I don\u2019t think overall he\u2019s the best jiu-jitsu fighter that Georges has ever faced, but in those niche areas, he really could be a potential threat. He really is the best.\u201d  -John Danaher", 
        "what's the official bjj name for this? I referred to this as \"kind of an x guard\". Other thing I find interesting about this sequence is he goes palm to palm grip on the guillotine instead of the super traditional grip\n\n(I'm a purple belt but kind of stepped away because of injuries)", 
        "Not really sure what that is but it looks and sounds cool ha ", 
        "A thing of beauty.", 
        "thing of beauty", 
        "This trumps any/all of Ido's \"movements\".", 
        "Yeeesss! I noticed that and it was such a minor detail but a significant one to make the ending come quicker. Not that it changed anything about the outcome really", 
        "Dam that was slick", 
        "I love Diaz. ", 
        "Nate big brothered the fuck out of Conor in every aspect of the fight. Must be what Nick felt like years ago lol.", 
        "Im not a CM fan but he did win the first but after Nate figured out his timing and reach, he got him", 
        "You're high, you must not have watched the first round.", 
        "Every aspect != every second. 1st was edge to Conor but once 209CHOLO warmed up the superior martial artist was apparent.", 
        "I noticed this. Conor's used that pass a few times and I'm pretty sure /r/mma has highlighted it. Was waiting for this post. \n\nNate is a beast.", 
        "This is so cool. I start to notice these kind of things after having done BJJ only for like a week or so. So much detail in that sport, but magical to see a real master practice it.", 
        "What's the alternative here?\n\nWhat should Conor (or anyone else in that position) have done to avoid getting trapped?\n\nedit: serious question.\n", 
        "You have to raise your base in the air to free the hook and drive weight down on the shoulder of the guy underneath. The problem was Conor did this, but was still caught with his neck wrapped, which means he couldn't ever really apply the proper balance.\n\nThe Monday Morning Analyst is up in hopefully 30 minutes. I go over this in great detail, for those interested.", 
        "ah cool, thanks man.\n\nI mean, for the sake of argument, assuming two fairly equal guys are in that position is one just going to be screwed with little choice? Or would they never be in it in the first place?", 
        "If the neck is wrapped, that changes everything, but if you're trying to motion pass and applying pressure on top, the guy on top has more options by a mile.", 
        "There's a famous quote in Jui Jitsu:  \"You fucked up a long time ago\"\n\nWhat Conor did is about as good as you can hope for, he could've gotten his hips higher during his escape attempt but he was gassed and his neck was trapped, so that's easier said than done.", 
        "Like schooling a child..oh, wait a minute...", 
        "You can tell Nate has worked years on his BJ skills", 
        "Incredible how much disrespect Conor is getting for his ground game and how much praise Diaz is getting for his. Conor's x-guard ankle pick sweep was very nice, but is getting shit on completely because apparently ''Diaz was letting Conor get the sweep''. It was still a very nice technique, whether Diaz ''cared'' about it or not. \n\nAnd that leg trap from Diaz is a very basic technique that is just an instinctive reaction against people who want to pass your guard, or counter the guillotine. I would actually say it is bad technique because you should never allow yourself to rely on a leg trap to avoid getting your guard passed. ", 
        "Logic, and you're getting downvoted. The pitchfork crew is dead set on roasting Conor, regardless of what argument is brought up.", 
        "Main and Co-Main events are usually great, why is it that all the other figths are mostly total ass?", 
        "Bunch of mid tier journeymen / nerves", 
        "That's technical and it's not at the same time.  It's the kind of response you don't think about after a while and it just happens.  It shows he spends a lot of time playing guard. ", 
        "Kinda looks lucky. I have no MMA training. ", 
        "A few years ago I was running down Stockton Street pretty close to their new gym. Nate must have recognized me since I was a whitebelt at his gym. All of a sudden this big ass black truck pulls up next to me and says, \"Rizak! Get in.\" I didn't even realize who it was at first but when I looked up it was Nate and some other people from the gym. So I said fuck it and jumped in.\n\nHe took everyone to the taco truck down the street and bought us all food. ", 
        "Honest question, would he buy tacos/burritos for everyone and not eat himself? I know he doesn't eat meat except for seafood. ", 
        "It wasn't a group order. He took the group to the taco truck and offered to pay for anyone who wanted to eat. Hope that makes sense.", 
        "\"2093\" upvotes", 
        "\"Get in loser \u2013 we're buying burritos!\"", 
        "How is there gym? I'm serious about training and am willing to relocate myself. The main thing I want is good instructions and lots of rolling time. I hate bs gyms that have barely any rolling time. Can you tell me what an average session is like, and how much your paying?", 
        "I want to believe", 
        "I sure hope you do, i dont even know how I'd prove this though. Happy cake day homie!", 
        "The one off of Turner? ", 
        "There was one on kettleman right by that RV place. Not sure if it's still there. ", 
        "so crazy that he's vegan and can compete on this level. really have a lot respect for that!!", 
        "You could say the Diaz bros have a \"Gang mentality\" because they are really a \"with us or against us\" kind of guys, but definitely they sound like dudes who look after their friends and training partners. They care a lot for the people who are \"with them\".", 
        "Absolutely. They plug their fighters every chance they get. They take the time to corner their fighters even if it's just a local or regional show.", 
        "paying it foward", 
        "The guy likes Mexican food. And now I'm craving it.\n\nFunny that a burrito started his career.", 
        "Seriously,from the first look,people could say that Diaz bros are agressive ghetto meatheads who just want to fight for fun. But really if you know them better they grow on you,as the realest and sanest persons in mma show business. Especially after Conor fight. Everything was against Nate,the money,the crowd,the media,the preparation time. Also Conor was a total asshole ,openly mocking Nate. And even in octagon the first round was brutal,but Nate showed heart till the end and his win was beautiful ,amost righteous. That was so cool, Diaz brothers are good people,just not your typical neighbours ", 
        "Come on, they openly mocked eachother and Nate started it months before Conor did. The only fucked thing Conor did was take that shot at Nate's hand at the weigh ins. I'm a huge Diaz fan whereas I simply like Conor, but be objective.", 
        "I love how Nate was not responding and just pop pop pop, cunt was focused as.", 
        "For years I have never respected those two brothers, but that fight completely turned me around on Nate. He showed just immense character during and after that fight. I'm a total fan now. ", 
        "What kind of burrito did you and Nate get? ", 
        "Motherfucker he said it was a taco truck not a burrito truck. The fucks wrong with you", 
        "I was embarrassed I didn't have any money so I didn't ask for anything. Nate didn't eat either if I remember correctly.", 
        "Man, such a good heart. Sad he gets such a bad rap sometimes.", 
        "Funny thing is,  until the Conor fight I never really liked Nate or his brother. When Nate won and instead of taking his moment to talk a ton of shit on Connor just said how much he respected him, I was massively impressed by his character. ", 
        "Fuck yeah that's dope as fuck dude", 
        "The taco truck served vegan food? ", 
        "My friend is a vegan and all they cared about was that a vegan fighter won lol. Do you know why Nate chooses to be vegan? I've heard him talk about it helping weight cutting but does he do it for animals too?", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YXOYQbSfHdQ\n\nI didn't watch the whole thing but he seems to believe some pseudoscience about the stuff we are feeding cattle making them poisonous to humans.", 
        "Are we even sure he was vegan when he was young enough that he relied on his BJJ friends to buy him a burrito to eat? I'm not convinced - vegan can be an expensive lifestyle", 
        "Not talking about back when he was a kid. Talking about when he bought Rizak to the taco truck. But Rizak already stated that Nate didn't even eat.", 
        "Tacos are actually one of the best vegan foods.  Load it with beans, rice, guac, peppers, lettuce, etc.", 
        "A taco truck in Stockton is going to be a roach coach. Not one of those hip, foodie food trucks that are super popular now. So that would mean they make their beans with lard, and probably their rice as well. Also, I know simply being vegan doesn't mean you also only eat organic, non-GMO food, but hearing Nick and Nate (especially Nick) talk about nutrition, I just cant imagine them eating at a taco truck. They keep a raw food diet, no? I mean, Nick complains about recirculated air on an airplane.", 
        "This was in Lodi. Nate didn't eat there.", 
        "Corn tortilla topped with any combination of beans, rice, avocado, grilled onion/peppers, roasted corn, pico de gallo, cilantro and hot sauce. Basic vegan taco bruh. Also by coincidence gluten free, if you're one of those dummies who cares.", 
        "Corn tortilla, beans, rice, corn, etc etc. Not too hard to get vegan options at a taco truck. ", 
        "He probably wasn't vegan then and even if he was they make it right there, you could easily just get beans and other things instead of meat.", 
        "i keep seeing that they eat fish. fish tacos are pretty popular too. ", 
        "Except for Food trucks that are specifically in your face marketed as a \"This is for meat and men only\" trucks, every food truck I've ever seen has half their menu made up of alternative dietary options like grass fed gluten free curried potatoes.", 
        "Grass fed potatoes?", 
        "I bet if you sold potatoes with this on the bag, you'd sell quite a fucking bit. Ignorance and all.", 
        "What, you don't feed grass to your potatoes?", 
        "The best kind of potatoes!", 
        "Lol, this guy eats grain fed potatoes. Get real bro.", 
        "Yeah, you need to check your human privilege bro! ", 
        "Are they freerange spuds though? I'll have you know that I exclusively eat cruelty-free veggies, I'm not some kind of barbarian, for Neil DeGrasse Tyson's sake.", 
        "ppffft i bet he also eats unactivated almonds", 
        "I feel like people here are confusing the new (I know, not that new by now) idea of food trucks with the old standbys of street food. Taco trucks in my neighborhood aren't food trucks---theyre taco trucks with $4.50 burritos and plastic baggies for jalape\u00f1os and carrots who only take cash. It's just an extension of street carts or people who sell tamales and champurrado out of Gatorade coolers, the sidewalk mango sellers or the pickup trucks who camp out by construction workers for when they go on a lunch break.\n\nThis is in LA. There is a world of tendy food trucks that serve food as expensive as restaurants and that you track down on Twitter (not dissing them, I like those too, but can't afford them), but I get the feeling that's not what the story about Diaz is talking about. Seems more like the local taco truck. You can ask them for some avacado and vegetables in a tortilla, but a lot don't exactly cater to vegans, and I've never seen them gluten free.", 
        "fuck gluten free. Gimme extra gluten", 
        ">You can ask them for some avacado and vegetables in a tortilla, \n\n\\+ Beans + Rice + hot sauce + cheese if you're not vegan... Sounds pretty good to me. \n\nThat's all you need for a vegan/vegetarian. People have this idea that vegetarians and vegans always replace meat with some kind of meat substitute, but in some things, just leaving the meat out leaves you with something good - Mexican, Indian and Thai food are all pretty much like that.", 
        "Yeah my dad's been a vegetarian for like 49 years (he's old as fuck) and he says people always ask him \"well, what do you eat then?\" and he always replies \"everything but the meat\".", 
        "I'm Australian, and while a lot of people are dumbasses when it comes to taking about vegetarianism, no one is quite unimaginative enough to actually ask me what I eat. \n\nI would have thought that much was obvious.", 
        "Yeah, you'd think, right?", 
        "Well that's a fair point. Where I live food services like that are extremely regulated, so the only Taco Truck I know serves like Kimchi tacos with locally raised grass fed beef and shit.\n\nOr the $8 grilled cheese truck for overpaid hipsters. Seriously, it's a fucking grilled cheese. You're not even paying to borrow a chair or table you have to find those accommodations yourself what the Hell are You doing.\n\n", 
        "I don't think he actually ate anything himself to be honest.", 
        "Hey, since you're familiar with the camp, do you know if Nick and Richard Perez worked out their issues? And just by following on social media, looks like Nick wasn't really as involved in Nate's training lately. Not really in training pics. To be honest, looks like Nick has been partying it up. I was pretty surprised to find out about his DUIs considering how fanatic he is about health and nutrition. Any thoughts on this? I wonder because Nate has been looking amazing lately and I'm hoping he can keep the momentum going. Don't know if Nick is on the same page as Nate though, and I don't want that to derail this Nate Diaz hype train! ", 
        "I'm unaware of the relationship between them but knowing them it's probably all good now. I'm fairly certain the thing with Richard was a miscommunication. ", 
        "Taco trucks make the taco right there for you.  You understand how a taco works right?  You can ask them to put different things on it or leave things off.  Also, if you're starving, you're a bit less picky about your food.", 
        ">  Also, if you're starving, you're a bit less picky about your food.\n\nNot if you're vegan.", 
        "No idea why you are downvoted you are absolutely correct. You literally are not a vegan if you drop your ethical code because you are hungry. ", 
        "People get offended if you say \"vegan\" I think.", 
        "in california there's always vegan options.", 
        "Not a taco truck in Stockton. ", 
        "How do you know that?", 
        "I'M NOT SURPRISED BY YOUR DOWNVOTES MOTHERFUCKERS. Idk what you guys think of California, but it's not like you gotta play frogger with vegan food trucks whenever you try and cross the street. Stockton and Sac isn't like the coast from the bay down to LA. You can't go walking around in the 209 in burkenstocks like every other young person in San Francisco and San Luis Obispo.  \n\n", 
        "That has nothing to do with it - Any taco truck already has all of the ingredients to make vegan tacos and burritos. \n\nYou just don't put meat and cheese on there...", 
        "you can't just pull the meat out of a taco and say it's still a taco without a decent vegetarian substitute. your average nor cal taco truck ain't rolling around with soy chorizo.", 
        ">you can't just pull the meat out of a taco and say it's still a taco without a decent vegetarian substitute. \n\nOf course you can. \n\nBeans, rice, onions, salsa, guac, lime, on a tortilla.\n\nI'd totally eat that. ", 
        "Vegan burrito tortilla, rice, beans, cilantro, onions, salsa, and avocado son. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Ya veggies and beans... That's kind of what vegans eat. ", 
        "except at the BBQ places in the bay which have conspired to list cole slaw & water as their only vegan options. ", 
        "And cole slaw isn't even vegan.  ;-)", 
        "It's not? Why? Mayo made from animal products I assume?", 
        "Milk and eggs.", 
        "Mayo shouldn't have milk in it. Egg yolks, vinegar and oil, pretty much.", 
        "Mayo, motherfuckers", 
        "Might be using \"Just Mayo\", which incidentally isn't mayo (but tastes just like it).\n\nSource: my fiance is allergic to eggs (and thus mayo)", 
        "There's some tasty coleslaw that uses vinegar instead of mayo that should work.", 
        "who goes to bbq for the vegetables?", 
        "Yeah I think that was their thought process to. ", 
        "Someone who's hungry for pussy.", 
        "Beachwood BBQ in Long Beach had some good vegan fried pickles when I was there a few years back.", 
        "That's what i used to think about getting an onion wrapped in foil with a burger. Now if i don't get one it's disappointing.", 
        "KFC in India has a vegetarian menu. It's like an equal amount of veg and non veg. It's strange.", 
        "Why anyone would eat KFC in India is a mystery to me, ya'll food is on point.", 
        "Haha, it's nice to have something different from time to time. I'm Indian but I don't live in India currently, I'm moving soon. Fast food isn't a huge deal there from what I've seen. Like you said, cause even the cheapest food you can get on the street is wayy better.", 
        "street food ftw! Fuck now i wanna go back to India and eat all the street food! ", 
        "I love BBQ for many reasons. One of them is greens.\n\nWhich are usually cooked with bacon, but it's still a vegetable.", 
        "A vegan wouldn't eat that though.", 
        "Ah yes but it is technically a vegetable. Which is the best kind of vegetable.", 
        "Every day, somewhere in /r/MMA, there is a discussion about what constitutes veganism.", 
        "BBQ peppers and onions are great to be fair, I would eat that all day long", 
        "Okra is the shit", 
        ">Okra is ~~the~~ shit\n\nFTFY", 
        "An asshole, or their friends dragged them there.", 
        "This is why I don't have friends. Yeah... this is why. Thanks, man.", 
        "This needs to be added to that story!", 
        "I am a big Conor fan, but he was going to lose sooner or later, and I'm happy it was Nate.\nHe might not be the most articulate, but everything I hear and see about him paints him as a really cool guy, hope he gets that title shot.", 
        "This is amazing.", 
        "Everytime I read a story about Nick or Nate in here my heart gets all warm and fuzzy. Great dudes", 
        "I saw Nate Diaz in a grocery store in Stockton yesterday. I told him how cool it was to meet him in person, but I didn't want to be a douche and bother him and ask him for photos or anything. He said, \"Oh, like you're doing now?\" I was taken aback, and all I could say was \"Huh?\" but he kept cutting me off and going \"huh? huh? huh?\" and closing his hand shut in front of my face. I walked away and continued with my shopping, and I heard him chuckle as I walked off. \n\nWhen I came to pay for my stuff up front I saw Nate trying to walk out the doors with like fifteen Milky Ways in his hands without paying. The girl at the counter was very nice about it and professional, and was like \"Sir, you need to pay for those first.\" At first he kept pretending to be tired and not hear her, but eventually turned back around and brought them to the counter. \n\nWhen she took one of the bars and started scanning it multiple times, he stopped her and told her to scan them each individually \"to prevent any electrical infetterence,\" and then turned around and winked at me. I don't even think that's a word. After she scanned each bar and put them in a bag and started to say the price, he kept interrupting her by yawning really loudly.", 
        "This is a lame copypasta", 
        "No, its actually not. I was there too, at least for the last part. ", 
        "I saw the same one about Ellen Degeneres and someone else, I forgot who", 
        "Lol it started as Flying Lotus in Los Angeles. ", 
        "I thought you were gonna say every time you hear a story about Nick or Nate they are eating burritos", 
        "I have heard nothing but good things from fans that have met them. My buddy met Nick in Vegas and said he was the nicest dude and talked to him for a long time.", 
        "same here bro(first time i hear this story) im here smoking a bowl out my bong. these guys really are fighting to survive their entire life. thats what makes them all that much more special im truly blessed to say i had the honor of see him fight live in the MGM and take a picture with Richard Perez. 209 Stockton motherfuckers\n", 
        "Yeah I think they are misunderstood by a lot of the casual audience, I know a lot of people who think they are the biggest douches of all time but only really pay attention to Rousey's, Lesnar's, Silva's, and Mcgregors of the MMA world.", 
        "I've trained with both of them, fucking great guys. ", 
        "They really are great. The only thing i didnt like was the fight with Mayhem but that happened ages ago and Mayhem is now the crazy one.", 
        "I think that whole thing was all about being there for their teammates who are like brothers to them. Mayhem didn't mean to do some ducked up shit, but the way the diaz bros saw it, it was someone trying to take away from their teammates celebration. Like they literally don't play any games and are ready to throw down for their boys", 
        "They really are great people. When I trained at their gym they would always stop to give me advice when I was getting caught up in a submission. \n\nIt was cool to have Nick and Nate yell shit at you from across the gym when you're getting choked out. That's not common in other gyms where pros train. \n", 
        "It's MORE genuine when the Diaz brothers do it because they don't seek publicity.  Not saying other fighters do but some pro sports athletes in mainstream sports do.", 
        "You're right, they're just doing it for the cash. ", 
        "Yup and he was only getting paid 20/20 which is insane, he's going to be able to give back so much more to his community now that he's a millionaire.", 
        "This was a great match-up and payout no matter how it turned out.", 
        "Is the cocky/arrogant persona just to get fights?", 
        "Irrelevant username", 
        "It is all ufc manufactured drama to milk the publicity and money. That is Capitalism for you", 
        "I like to think it comes from over a decade of intense brotherly love.", 
        "Every single time I hear Nick or Nate talk they always seem like pretty nice guys and are actually quite smart when it comes to fighting etc, obviously not the most articulate guys but they never seemed cocky or arrogant just unwilling to let people take the piss out of them.", 
        "I remember Nick talking about how he had to play up as the bad guy because GSP was not promoting the fight. I think it was the \"Wolf Tickets\" presser before thier fight.", 
        "Not just that, they're not interested in the media or people trying to latch on. They have no interest in being friendly with people like that. ", 
        "It's also used as a tool to build self belief going into a fight.", 
        "It's more like they don't like bullshit. Like when Nick felt GSP was being fake just to promote the card he didn't want to play the game anymore. Nick has talked about his background of having to fight for everything he had made him more prone to attack people when they would comment or criticize him. He'll play the game but then he'll also not do it if he feels people are trying to label him falsely.\n\nIf you're cool with them, they'll treat you the same way. But if you try to interject yourself and have nothing to do with the fight they'll let it be known you're at risk for a slap. Like Nick has said to Helwani and Nate did with Anik.\n\n[I think this video sums up their personalities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ef2DoUaGzU) . They just view it as talking the truth.\n\nBut they're not dicks as evidenced by how they treat people outside of the game.", 
        "Same with McGregor.", 
        "Hes really really good at acting like an asshole then", 
        "He's supposed to be a really nice and down to earth guy IRL. That video of him crashing the fan with the cardboard cutout's apartment was so awesome. \n", 
        "I'm sure some of it is just an act and some of it is actual arrogance and confidence in his own ability. However, I've seen him after every night he always approach his opponent afterward to say something. Publicity stunts sells and that's why McGregor is the best at it along with Diaz brothers. Also, it helps get into your opponent's head like what happened to Aldo.", 
        "People like to ignore that from time to time. Same with any other fighter.", 
        "Sells tickets!  They're taking a page out of the pro wrestling hand book.  It is good for business.", 
        "Yeah, and it's nothing new. Muhammad Ali was hugely influenced by pro wrestling in his self promotion, yet people always act like it cheapens the sport. It has huge roots in influencing combat sports. ", 
        "It makes it way better!  There are few things more satisfying than seeing an underdog come out on top or a heel getting their comeuppance in the ring.  ", 
        "I think it goes deeper than that.  It's more like growing up in a prison environment, where you can't afford to show any weakness and you have to have the loudest bark just so the others don't try to fuck with you.", 
        "As Stone Cold Steve Austin said, \"the best gimmicks are the ones where the people are just being themselves, but with the volume turned up to 11\"", 
        "Damn, that's a great quote", 
        "Undertaker was dead for years before he started.", 
        "Honestly, that's just the way fighters are a lot of the time.  You can be cocky and arrogant to your opponents, and still be a caring awesome person.", 
        "I know a brown belt(black now?) who trains with/under them and let me just say he refers to Nate as 'Nathan' and 'a respectable young man' (he's an older guy)", 
        "If you visit his gym to train  he will introduce himself as Nathan ", 
        "\"See how I gotta come off just to get a fight? I gotta come off like that just to get a fight. I got to be the bad guy. You want to point the finger and make me the bad guy, I'm the bad guy, and now I get the fight.\"\n\n\\- Nick Diaz on getting his title shot against GSP", 
        "So is the being late to / skipping of contractually-mandated press conferences and interviews also part of the bad guy schtick?  Or is that True Nick?\n\nWhat about the drug test failures?  Is that True Nick not following through on the terms of his contract (again), or is that Bad Boy Nick trying to get a fight?\n\nedit:\n\nYou guys put blinders on or something when it comes to the Diaz brothers.  I swear.  Nick's persecution complex is over the fucking top, he repeatedly broke his contract's rules on drugs and then whined when he got punished for it.  Who is to blame for that?  The people responsible for upholding the terms of the contract, or Nick for \"not giving a fuck,\" which you all praise them so much for?", 
        "That's just anxious nick self medicating with marijuana, a legal right of his in his home state. ", 
        "It doesn't matter if it's legal if his contract, that he signed and agreed to, says otherwise.  If there is some kind of exemption status, then he should have made the attempt to get that status instead of breaking the terms of his contract repeatedly and then getting mad when there were repercussions.\n\nWhy doesn't Nate have the same problems showing up to events and stopping his smoking during the testing periods?\n\nLet me be clear, I don't give a shit what they smoke or whether they show up to any interviews before their fights.  But if it's in their contracts, and they ignore/break it, then they should have to deal with whatever punishment is put forth.", 
        "If it's in my contract to not take my medication that I consider essential for my well-being, i would probably still try to take it. Nick seems to have serious anxiety problem, unlike nate. The guy has many faults but this business with marijuana is stupid. Nick claims to need it for his health and well being, it's not performance enhancing in anyway. The rules are straight up dumb and behind the times. It's hard to fault the guy for trying to do what is best for him.  ", 
        "That isn't remotely the same, would never happen, and you know it.\n\n--\n\nWay to change your comment.  You originally said \n\n>\"If it's in my contract to not take my asthma medication, then I'm still gonna fucking take it.\"\n\nNow, you claim this:\n\n>Nick claims to need it for his health and well being, it's not performance enhancing in anyway. The rules are straight up dumb and behind the times. It's hard to fault the guy for trying to do what is best for him.\n\nWell, guess what?  Nick signed a contract knowing full well what the drug testing entailed.  If, as he says, he needs it for his health and well being, he should not have signed that contract.\n\nHe KNOWINGLY signed the contract, and then KNOWINGLY took drugs that he knew would make him fail testing, REPEATEDLY.  There is no defense for that, it is ALL on him.  \n\nRules are rules, regardless of whether you consider them dumb or behind the times.  If you accept those rules (by signing a fucking contract, maybe?) then you have to accept whatever punishment is deemed fit when you BREAK those rules.\n\nIf Nick had such an issue with it, he should have made an attempt to get an exemption, or he should have waited till his contract was done and negotiated something different.  But he didn't do either of those.  Instead, he chooses to whine about being suspended for violating the terms of his employment.  Repeatedly and knowingly.", 
        "what would never happen and what isn't remotely the same? The guy has serious anxiety issues and uses marijuana to self medicate. ", 
        "Yeah pretty much. I had a friend get fired from his job in washington for pissing hot for weed even though it's legal here. He has no one to blame but himself because he knew they did random drug tests and he chose to smoke anyways. Same is true for anyone who decides to break their contract. Is smoking inherently wrong? I don't believe so, but Nick* knew the risks.\n\nEDIT: I'm a dumbass, fixed the name.", 
        "It was Nick and not Nate, but I agree.\n\nGod forbid you say something negative about the Wonder Boys, though.  Didn't you know they came from nothing?  And they don't give a fuck?  And they're the best boxers in MMA today?", 
        "-- Kenny Florian", 
        "IMO, and this goes for every major trial or challenge in life, if you don't come with a 'cocky' (confident) approach, don't bother stepping up.  It won't work out well for you.   It doesn't mean you're an asshole... it just means you believe in yourself.", 
        "Explains why he was pissed at Ariel for being an instigator. ", 
        "Well this changes things.", 
        "I ain't surprised motherfuckas", 
        "The only thing I deeply dislike about this sport.", 
        "Exactly how I feel. Fedor was a huge draw... The guy barely even speak, and when he did, he did so in russian. ", 
        "When the Diaz bro are gone I will be gone.", 
        "People like narratives ", 
        "That's sad. I wish the UFC cut the drama and focused on skilled fighters.", 
        "Hulk hogan could make a good run at the heavyweight title. ", 
        "Just how long have you been watching MMA? You have a big shit pot of posts ect. You should already know the UFC is a *business* and Mixed Martial Arts is a *sport* that everyone that can make money from, if possible.", 
        "Not sure why my sentence long post is pissing so many people off. Of course UFC is a *business* and MMA is a *sport* and when the hell did I say otherwise?", 
        "Welcome to the united states TV reality culture.", 
        "Dana is selling us all wolf tickets.", 
        "Nick didn't earn that title shot. Like at all. ", 
        "Then less people would watch. Pro wrestling figured it out decades ago.", 
        "Hyping a fight has been part of prize fighting since prize fighting was a thing. ", 
        "I mean in fairness, we still usually get the best match-ups possible. The last 12 months there have been some unbelievable fights.", 
        "Let's not act like the Diaz brothers are easy guys to negotiate with either. They constantly blow off media demands, constantly complain about money and are just generally difficult to work with. So honestly, their inability to get big fights all the time, (even though they get huge fights and probably more opportunities than other better fighters) has more to do with the UFC not trusting them. ", 
        ">Let's not act like the Diaz brothers are easy guys to negotiate with either. They constantly blow off media demands, constantly complain about money and are just generally difficult to work with. So honestly, their inability to get big fights all the time, (even though they get huge fights and probably more opportunities than other better fighters) has more to do with the UFC not trusting them. \n\n\nWOW idk where guys like you get off saying shit like that lol you dont know them, you dont work for the UFC, you never negotiation with them for anything..... you just regular dude, a fan....trying to talk like an expert. What a fucking joke.", 
        "Nate is making 20/20 (edit) before that Conor fight. Conors making more per fight than Nate has his whole career. But ok, Nate's the problem.", 
        "Nate also has a what, 20-10 record? Big difference", 
        "Sakuraba is 26-17. Basing fighter pay on the record would be absolutely ridiculous. Nate has been fighting high level competition for 5+ years. Conor fought Marcus Brimage 2 years ago.", 
        "Fair enough. Personally, I think record should dictate pay.", 
        "Yeah records and losses especially come down to level of competition IMO.  Unless you're GSP or Anderson Silva, you're gonna get your losses once you get up close to the top.  If you're consistently a top 5 fighter, you're doing pretty well if you win 7/10 of your fights at that level.", 
        "More so Nick. Remember his weird and frustrating start with the UFC? ", 
        "Nate made more than 20/20\n\nIts just that he front loaded his deal so his later fights only paid out 20/20 but his per fight average from his new contract was higher than 20/20", 
        "I thought Nate was only making 20/20?", 
        "I think you're right, Ill edit.", 
        "They're really paying Connor for his trash talking. He's turned it into a bit of an art form, and he never would be at the level he is without it. \n\nThe Diaz brothers have been talking trash for years, but they just don't seem to have that sort of draw. It's a shame, too, because you won't find another pair of fighters like them for a long time. ", 
        "No.. They aren't paying Conor because of his trash talking. They are paying him because of his PPV numbers and gate #s. ", 
        "Which is directly related to his mouth and his way with words. Now that the bubble of interest in Ireland has likely lost a lot of air, I'm a little curious to see if he can keep the numbers up. ", 
        "Nate making 20/20 is a combination of a lot of things. Bad management, not being easy to work with and frankly not being able to consistently win hurt him more. ", 
        "And zero Zuffa push.", 
        "The UFC could easily market the Diaz brothers as the people's fighters with their community involvement, healthy lifestyle (veggies and brownies cardio freaks) and keep it real/down to earth attitude. ", 
        "Yeah, a lot of people would definitely be interested in fighters where their main draw is the fact that they eat a lot of vegetables. /s", 
        "Don't be a hypocrite. You know perfectly well there's much more to the Diaz brothers than that. ", 
        "Sure they could, but why would they want to? That doesn't sell tickets, period.", 
        "You're wrong, Mr. UFC Marketing Director.", 
        "How dare you!", 
        "No. I remember that era and it was boring. Lay and pray, never forget", 
        "> That's sad. I wish the UFC cut the drama and focused on skilled fighters.\n\nThey put on 100s of fights a year, less than 5% of them have 'drama'.", 
        "This is why I don't agree with all this Nate being victim of the UFC BS. Most of the fighters at the top are actually boring as fuck. Nate is just like any boxer around before Ali came in and started talking about butterflies and bees. ", 
        "It is not the UFC. It is the consumers. Don't blame the UFC for giving the fans what they demand, which is drama, attitude, and feuds. ", 
        "Which is what makes it so exciting! I love the sport, but I also love all that drama because it adds so much to it.\n\nIt wouldn't be half as interesting without the feuds. I mean even with DC and JJ st the press conference, the whole 'I'm a pussy and you want me to suck your dick' thing was fucking hilarious and that's the kind of shit that compels me to watch the build up and gets me excited for the fight.", 
        ">Don't blame the UFC for giving the fans what they demand\n\nWait... why not?\n", 
        "Oh, so like the UFC doesn't encourage it and create the environment for it to exist? It happens a lot less in boxing. ", 
        "I'm sorry, but this is not true. It's the same argument hollywood uses about why shitty movies are made. It's just not true. If you produce good content, people will eat it up.", 
        "Yeah exactly. Consumerism tends to bring out the worst in people, perpetuating on a social level, and then reinforcing that attitude. It's a downward race to the bottom for society. Before you know it, zombies. ", 
        "There's always been a lot of crossover between ufc fans and pro wrestling fans. In my opinion this has both helped the sport grow monumentally and been a huge detriment.", 
        "Not really blaming anyone, I just wish it weren't the way it is.", 
        "Well, don't do that! ", 
        "Only a filthy lying(poorly named) Canuck would find something wrong with inane conflict designed to make more money. ", 
        "me too man. big time. i like kimbo, but wtf. his fight will pull more than hendos fight will.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "I'm not watching the Hendo fight because it's unethical. Gotta encourage him to retire it's been too long for real", 
        "i meant to say bendo... lol", 
        "But at the same time I want him to get as much money out of this sport as he can to retire off of.", 
        "Kimbo is still fighting? I thought they kicked him out a long time ago...", 
        "Not in the UFC, he's still fighting in Bellator now. I think he'll probably keep fighting at least until he loses (and if they keep putting him up against untrained bums with no cardio, that could be quite a while from now)", 
        "It's prize fighting. It's all about being a draw. Not anybody's fault.", 
        "I recall Anderson Silva pointing out something like this in his post fight interview when they fought saying something along the lines of how Nick only acts like a bad guy to put on a show for the fans and sell the fight \n\n[Here's the bit from Anderson i'm talking about](https://youtu.be/zKylVe2z0fg?t=206) after Joe asks him what Nick was saying when he was taunting and provoking him at the start of the fight", 
        "I disagree, I think Nick and Nate really have to hate their opponent to get motivated, afterwards they dont have a single reason to hate their opponent. ", 
        "Geez those fools that wont stop shouting insults during the interview are just obnoxious as fuck. ", 
        "them girls at the end tho", 
        "http://www.mmafighting.com/2012/5/4/2998733/a-tale-of-two-diaz-brothers", 
        "I'm 4 years late to learn more about the Diaz story, and I can now see how they've got the fans following.  I've just become one after reading that article.\n\nI had always been puzzled at the fans because I didn't know anything beyond their trash talks and crazy antics that aren't even entertaining like say, McGregor.\n\nThanks for sharing.", 
        "Fantastic article by Ben Fowlkes.  He writes for MMAJunkie now and has an excellent podcast with Chad Dundas.", 
        "Man, I didn't come here for feels.", 
        "I want to petition ESPN to do a 30-for-30 on the Diaz brothers. I mean picture the commercial.\n\n(Piano music playing)\n\nWhat if I told you, for some families...fighting your way out, is the only way out.\n\nESPN 30-for-30 presents, Straight Outta Stockton. A film directed by r/mma. ", 
        "The closest thing we got to that was the Primetime they did on Condit vs Nick. That shit got me to really like him on a personal level.", 
        "Followed by Nick Diaz snap chat...\"take a piss\"", 
        "\"The NFL has the Manning brothers, the UFC has the Diaz's. That, however, is where the similarities end. Growing up in Stockton....\".", 
        "I would watch the shit out of that.  ", 
        "I'd sign that shit", 
        "YES!! This is the best idea I've ever heard.", 
        "Man that would be gold.", 
        "Can we please get this shit done?", 
        "http://m.imgur.com/gallery/uJxT1kT", 
        "What's this from? Rounders?", 
        "Yes sir", 
        "> What if I told you\n\n... I'm not surprised, motherfuckers!\n", 
        "Holy shit that was perfect. Heard the music and that guy's voice saying it and everything. I would watch the shit out of that!", 
        "\"Directed my /r/mma\" God help us ", 
        "The /tv/ porn all over again", 
        "Where can I find this? Asking for a friend ", 
        "https://cdn.streamable.com/video/mp4/230d.mp4 sfw version\n\nhttp://watchxxxfree.com/meme-lover-ella-hughes-danny-d/ porn version\n\n", 
        "I would watch it.  I've always wanted to see it done but now they're at the pinnacle.. I'd even say that as of late Nate has become the figurehead even.. Nick is and will always be great.. Nate shouldn't be considered his shadow anymore though..\n\nNate has learned how to embrace enough of what Nick fell short of.. media.. drug tests, etc.. promotional obligations..   Nick should still be cherished for what he's given us.. but it's time to recognize Nate right now I feel.", 
        "It definitely feels like Nates time to shine. It would be great to see him reap some benefits of his career before he is completely brained. He is a joy to watch fight, but his trademark of blocking punches with his head and the increasingly slurred speech scares me for his future.", 
        "This is actually pretty interesting to see. Around the time Diaz went on that brutal streak of finishing Gomi, bludgeoning Cerrone, and outclassing Miller, the perception of him being the little Diaz in his brother's shadow disappeared. After the Cerrone/Miller fights, there was a lot of discussion about who was better between Nick and Nate. \n\nBut yeah, this isn't the first time this has come up.  ", 
        "While I agree with this 100%, don't sleep on Nick. When he comes back he has a real good shot at being WW champ after two or three fights or maybe the give him the shot immediately.", 
        ">maybe the give him the shot immediately\n\nSoooo, fuck Stephen Thompson then right? - This fan mentality is exactly why the UFC gives immediate rematches to some fighters and then \"fans\" get all pissed off about it.", 
        "Nick vs Wonderboy for the title-shot! Twould be epic! ", 
        "Wonderboy's fighting Mcdonald and no doubt if he wins he gets a shot.", 
        "I love Nick, but his last win was in 2011.  I'd watch the fight but there are far more deserving recipients of title shots right now.  Nick needs to win at least one fight in convincing fashion, make his media obligations, and have no controversy regarding his blood/urine content first for it to be even in the neighborhood of deserving.", 
        "Oh for sure, I think he should have to fight once or twice, but the UFC are scumbags when it comes to title shots and Nick is a big draw so who knows.", 
        "Yeah but what if he wins BUT fails a postfight UA... bad risk no matter how big a draw he is.", 
        "True but with the new rules you have to get high the day of the fight to test positive so it would be a lot easier. But still you have a good point, he should have to prove himself first.", 
        "He passed 2 tests and failed 1.  Facts don't matter.  Risk/Reward situation with him.", 
        "I think he could beat Lawler right now and Lawler would be crazy to not want to avenge his loss. I'd also love to see him fight Rory right now. I think he takes both fights but they would be wars. ", 
        "I think he could outbox lawler again but I think Rory would outpoint him like Condit did. Jab jab run.", 
        "What makes you say he could beat Lawler right now? Have you watched any of Lawler's recent fights? That's pretty disregardful, especially seeing as Nick has had a long lay-off.", 
        "I'm a huge Lawler fan. Loved every one of his recent wars but Diaz has the style to beat Lawler on the feet, in my opinion. ", 
        "I'd love to see that rematch. Their first bout was one for the ages...", 
        "I think Rory is a bad match up for him, but I do think he might beat Lawler again in a rematch. I just think Rory would have the ability to control him on the ground, unlike Lawler. ", 
        "People would be all pissed off that Nick keeps getting great fights after consecutive losses but that shows you how well Nick loses a fight.", 
        "You can can say you'd be mad man.  Don't hide behind the crowd, but you're right. haha", 
        "I'd be pumped, fuck that noise.  I don't need to see Nick fight a couple other arbitrary guys before getting the fight we all want to see. \"What, the most exciting fight of the year is going to happen sooner than later? NOOOOOO!!!!\"", 
        "Is it in the gym / martial arts culture for under privileged kids to train for free?", 
        "Usually these kids do small menial tasks when they're not training which saves the gym staff time and saves the gym money.", 
        "Really depends on the gym owner. The extremely respectable ones will do that. \n\n\nMy first BJJ gym the instructor recognized I was a 17 year old with no money while I was doing the 7 day trial period. After the 7 days I explained that I loved it and he probably already saw that but I couldnt afford to pay $100/month and my parents certainty wouldnt. The owner(an awesome pedro sauer black belt & MMA fighter) just told me to keep coming. His gym was already successful to be honest, and he is an awesome dude. He inspired me more than anyone else in my life. I wouldnt consider myself an under privileged kid like nate and nick.", 
        "When I was a freshman, maybe sophomore in college, I remember my TKD instructor let me pay half price for quite a while. So yeah I do suspect it is common to let poor kids train for cheaper.", 
        "not really. their mom probably paid for it or they had to clean mats after class to pay their fees", 
        "definitely how i've seen it - even for non martial arts, like soccer teams and what not. ", 
        "At the gym I attended the owner/head trainer would allow some of the kids to trade work for training.  These kids would show up early and stay late to clean.  I honestly did not mind paying $140 a month after seeing that.  ", 
        "I'm sure it changes from gym/dojo to gym/dojo\n\nBut the Dojo I grew up in, doing Isshin Ryu for 10 years, loved the \"poor\" kids. The fees were only 30 a month, but if you couldn't afford it, and showed you really wanted to learn, all you had to do was grab a broom and sweep in between classes.\n\n", 
        "I don't know about gym culture but it's common in inner city/ sports culture. If you show promise in basketball,  football,  baseball, boxing... Etc someone will train you for free. \n", 
        "Yep. Little to no equipment costs, and kids that are already into fighting. And they're typically kids that are lacking guidance and take really well to proper instruction. ", 
        "I can't speak for MMA or Martial Arts but I was boxing from the ages of 7 to 17 and it cost me 50p (a few cents in America) for an hour and I think when I first started it was 20p. \n\nSo I didn't train for free it was incredible cheap and I think the money went to buy us lunch after training.", 
        "You must be one hell of a boxer now", 
        "I'm 26 now so I haven't done it for quite awhile lol, stopped when I went to college. But I wasn't great even when I was training haha. ", 
        "When I was around 15 trying to get consistent in the gym, I wasn't able to afford it either.. I had one gym that I would clean but got shut down because not enough to keep the doors open.. \nAnother place I went into a couple times went on my MySpace and posted on my wall how I couldn't come back in until I paid. \nIt was deterring and I'm really thankful for high school wrestling. As long as I went to school I could do what I fell in love with. Training. \nNowadays I'm thankful to be able to afford and control my life choices. I need to start helping my community out more. ", 
        "kind of, yeah. I knew one of my training partners who literally lived in the gym (sleeping on mats at night, using showers there, spent all day training) because he didn't have a place to stay at the time. ", 
        "That's how it was when I was a kid, my family wasn't in the best position so my instructor let me train for free. I now love martial arts and I've been doing it most of my life now.", 
        "Yeah I was going to say his parents paid for him and his brother to take BJJ, but didn't buy food? I'm assuming they were free ", 
        "If that was the case then thank goodness she raised her kids that way because I wouldn't want the Diaz bros any other way. \n\nOf course not applicable to everyone. ", 
        "Lets see how GSP does against empty stomach Nick", 
        "Could be from nicks clout in the gym. Maybe asked if his bro could tag along", 
        "Yeah it is, especially in places like Stockton. I live somewhere similar and it's a way to keep kids off the street and away from gang violence. I never took advantage of it because I was a lazy fuck but yeah. ", 
        "Many gyms will be able to work something out if a student doesn't have money. You work for them and help clean mats or something and get free or discounted training until you can pay for it yourself.", 
        "My TKD school is pretty much non-profit. Lots of the the more privileged kid's parents help pay for the less privileged kids. I'd say about half the kids there dont pay for classes, only tournaments. ", 
        "Same except I was paying - not my parents. I actually realized they increased my rate a bit because they knew roughly how much money I was making. But if it's for someone who can't afford it? Shit, take my money.", 
        "yeah. all the parents know how it works. Some of the adults who cant pay give other services. Like running classes and stuff if they're black belts. One girl runs a yoga class as payment. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Stockton, CA apparently.", 
        "I'm not poor and I'm not a kid, but can I go for the free burritos?", 
        "not exactly tactful comment here", 
        "I'm also literally on the other side of the globe, but don't you dare joke about burritos on a forum dedicated to grown men beating each other up", 
        "my bad, the poor stuff just gets a lil touchy with me. imma balance you out with an upvote here", 
        ">Stockton, CA   \n\nnot worth it.", 
        "I know that it happens a lot in boxing and lately there have been a fair amount of stories like this in the MMA world as well. \n\nA lot of gyms and trainers have no problem giving a poor kid a few meals a day or a place to sleep if they are seriously interested in learning the craft. Combat sports draw in a lot of lost souls, so in a lot of cases trainers come from the same roots as the up and comers that step into their gyms. \n\nThey can see that a lot of kids can focus their energy towards less than noble pursuits if left to their own devices. If putting some gloves on their hands or teaching them to grapple can keep them off the streets where they might make some horrible decisions, it can make a serious difference in their lives. \n\nI wonder where Nate would be if he never got that free burrito after he trained. I love stories like these. It is a beautiful juxtaposition in the fight game.", 
        "Prison? Deadend job. Watching Conor fight in the UFC, with his friends at a bar, wondering what his life could have been if he only focused or if someone had cared?", 
        "My old Muay Thai gym in Toronto would let kids who couldnt afford membership fees train for free if they cleaned the gym afterwards", 
        "ok creed", 
        "I met a 65 year old lady who started crossfit which she got in exchange for cleaning the gym after it closed.\n\nI actually met her in the ER, because she came for muscle pain, which turned out to be rhabdomyolysis. Whoops.", 
        "Aw man, you killed the positive vibe.", 
        "Well crossfit is possibly the most injurious athletic activity you can do.  Those motherfuckers intentionally ignore the advice of experts.", 
        "Lol, not sure why this doesn't surprise me. When I've dealt with Rhabdo it's been 99% Crossfit, 1% drunks. ", 
        "They even have Rhabdo the Clown", 
        "My favorite was the guy who huffed paint until he passed out on his arm and it turned blue and necrosed. He ended up losing his arm to the shoulder, he was unconscious for 24 hours before he got to the ER.", 
        "Yup, I nearly field amputated someone due to it. One of our afgani partners in the field did too much opium, fell asleep on his hand, rhabdo set in 24 hr later, it was ugly. Getting home flown out to an appropriate hospital was hard. ", 
        "Those rascally Afghans and their hijinks.", 
        "Holy shit she must have been cleaning up a storm!", 
        "How the hell does a 65yr old get rhabdo?!", 
        "Wankathon", 
        "mate ur everywhere i swear", 
        "Man's on road.", 
        "Stopping liking all the things I like, I'm a unique and beautiful snowflake.", 
        "Crossfit bro, he said in the post.", 
        "Rowing machine I think she said, most of her pain was in her forearms.", 
        "being trained by crossfit coaches that don't know what to do", 
        "Gainz", 
        "Yeah my former gym had a ghanian refugee training for free and a russian dude who fell on hard times who didn't pay for 2 years untill he got his life back in order. ", 
        "I've seen some stuff like this in Brazil. That works on soccer schools either.\n\nActually, if you're live in a 3rd world country you may have listened some stories like this one. A bunch of soccer players lived this way and became great players because that was ALL they had to try.\n\nNothing but respect and love for these guys.", 
        "> I've seen some stuff like this in Brazil.\n\nThere's a similar story with Jose Aldo:\n\n>\"They were telling me that Wagnney Fabiano would be at the gym, and Jos\u00e9 would show up, and Wagnney would say, 'Have you eaten today or yesterday?' If not, they would go get him some food. That's how poor he was.\"\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jos%C3%A9_Aldo#Personal_life", 
        "It just puts so much into perspective. I really have no reason at all to complain about petty things in my life, with food in the refrigerator a few steps away, a warm home, a nice computer, a guitar, warm clothes, a phone, books etc...  ", 
        ">It just puts so much into perspective. I really have no reason at all to complain about petty things in my life, with food in the refrigerator a few steps away, a warm home, a nice computer, a guitar, warm clothes, a phone, books etc...  \n\nYour happiness is not dependent on the satisfaction of basic human needs, and you can't control how you feel. \n\nPerspective is valuable, but you shouldn't invalidate your actual feelings either. You don't have to be starving to be unhappy.", 
        "Oh, trust me, I understand. I've been struggling with depression and breakdowns for many years and I know that I'm not in a good place mentally, and I'm certainly not happy. All I meant is that you should never take things for granted and try to stay humble.", 
        "Seriously.\nWhile I'm behind a screen, down AF about my life... at least I have food and shelter readily available.", 
        "Damn, as someone who does BJJ I can't really imagine training on an empty stomach day after day.\n\n", 
        "I train in the mornings 7:30am class and don't eat until noon (intermittent fasting).  Took a week to get used to it, but feel even mentally sharper now while training fasted.", 
        "And I cannot imagine being able to train if I was broke. Must be a Cali thing.", 
        "Yea but knowing that if you fight hard enough, you'll win respect and a burrito, that hunger will probably sharpen your will.", 
        "Couple years back In high school I had to attend wrestling practice after a long day of eating nothing. Mom thought I had ADD and put me on Vyvanse. I would wanna be anywhere else in the world instead of being on those mats with an empty stomach. Holy shit this is bringing back memories. Gonna go make a sandwich ", 
        "Really? I couldn't imagine training on a full stomach. I'd probably feel like shit/puke. But that's an issue I've always had. I can't even run within an hour of eating or I'll get a crazy bloated stomach, a headache and crazy stomach cramps. Give me 3 hours after eating and I'm gtg, but any less than that and it's a no go for me.", 
        "If you've ever had to live with food scarcity, you eventually get more used to hunger.", 
        "Yeah, the body actually adapts and you lose some of your sense of hunger when it gets used to not eating much.", 
        "I was thinking the same thing. If I don't eat right before going to class I feel like shit.\n\nEdi: I meant \"right\" as in the right kind of food, not right before class. I try not to eat 1-2 hours before classs.", 
        "Try applesauce in a pouch before.  A little high energy snack to hold you over.  You can even eat it in between classes/drills if you feel yourself fading.  I prefer to eat on an empty starving stomach after class.  It makes me feel like I earned my meal.", 
        "That feeling of earning your meal is the best.\n\nAlso I find I eat even more of the \"right stuff\" when I eat after a good workout.", 
        "Wow you are a fucking trooper eating before class. That shit would be coming up an hour in if I did that.", 
        "You eat right before class?  If I eat within two hours before rolling I'll like I'm gonna throw up. ", 
        "Ha my fatass over here eats 30-45mins before each class", 
        "Ill get 2 gas station hotdogs 45 minutes before class sometimes. I'm fine!", 
        "I did a HEAVY leg day 30 min after eating breakfast once. You can only imagine the scene.", 
        "yeah im with you, get a bad stitch if i eat too soon. i used to bring in a water bottle, but found i was drinking too much with the same result, a bad stitch. now i just drink from the fountain so i dont over do it.", 
        "\"right\" = \"correctly\"/\"well\" (in this case)", 
        "I meant \"right\" as in the right kind of food, not right before class. I try not to eat 1-2 hours before classs.", 
        "Everybody is different. I like training on an empty stomach", 
        "Me too, but here I am belly full of food 30 minutes before I head to practice.\n\nI need to stop doing this to myself.", 
        "same", 
        "many moons ago i use to wrestle. i couldn't even hardly eat lunch and train after school w/o feeling nauseous.  Luckily practice was in the morning, and I'd feel much more satisfied when eating afterwards than before.  ", 
        "Fasted training represent!", 
        "I go for a fasted run every morning, then eat, wait til I feel good and then hit the gym. I don't think I could do a session in the gym without eating first...", 
        "I almost blacked out in the gym doing that. Not for me ", 
        "Yeah shit happens, a friend of mine needs to have a pre-workout meal even for fucking lifting weights.\n\nI'm used to fasting so I can go longer, i've done triathlon training even with a 48hsfast, or a 3 training session day with a 48-72hs fast, I just work in weird ways (endurance and strength are clearly affected though, for example my fastest 10km is 40:30, and half marathon at 1:35 I think, and with a 48hs fast, i cant come close to 43min 10k)", 
        "You probably had low blood sugar. Just drink some water and eat some honey. Still a pretty empty stomach but you won't pass out.", 
        "I went super heavy that day and for me eating about 45 minutes before the gym works out best.", 
        "Yea, I ran track in college and I ate a couple cheese burgers before practice one day. We ran hills and I threw up everywhere. I learned to just drink Gatorade before practice. Strawberry tastes the least bad coming back up.", 
        "Being poor makes you tolerant to a lot.", 
        "What a great story. This is why I didn't like Conor calling Nate broke and saying he had to teach jiu jitsu to eat, because it's true, you should never insult someone for being poor. He deserves respect for getting to where he is.", 
        "It's almost like he was hyping up the fight", 
        "Uh, I think Connor gets to say that when he accepted the fight that gave Nate basically more money than he's made from all of his previous fights combined. Connor did not have to take this fight.", 
        "Agreed I Connor was trying to sell the fight but went a little below the belt a couple times as well.  The interview when nate noped the fuck out was rough.  Tho I thought Connor realised what he did after nate left.", 
        "I believe he was implying that Nate had more time in the UFC, yet was not earning like Connor was.  It didn't really have anything to do with how Nate grew up.  At least, that was my impression.", 
        "That's true but I honestly think Conor is just putting on a front to get fights. I imagine a lot of fighters do it.", 
        "Sure. But he also could have gone with someone else or just not fought. Instead he did Diaz a pretty big solid", 
        "Anything is fair game when it comes to trash talk but McGregor has to eat it now. The fans rushing in with \"He's just doing it to sell fights. He's humble in defeat\" need to eat the loss the loss as well. He chose to mock a guy for his money and most strangely teaching kids so he shouldn't get a backdoor out of getting choked out like a rookie.", 
        "Maybe it was supposed to sound like an insult to us fans but at the same time bring light to everyone else that Nate is one of the best fighters in this sport and he has to teach jiu jitsu just to live.  Maybe he was bringing light that the UFC doesn't compensate their fighters very well.", 
        "Conor also knew he would be giving nate a huge pay day also.  ", 
        "He wasnt making fun of him for being poor. He was making fun of him for not being able to make money off fighting and being forced to teach", 
        "He wasn't making fun of Nate for growing up poor, he was rubbing it in that Nate was still getting paid shit for how long he's been fighting, where Conor was making a lot more as a newer fighter.", 
        "It seemed like after that though, he realized it actually cut Nate pretty deep and laid off. During the CNBC interview it almost looked like he was defending Nate from having to answer the uncomfortable questions.", 
        "I agree, and Connor had similar struggles why I think it is just an act. Hell I would venture to guess the vast majority of fighters have been on a cup o noodles diet when they were younger. ", 
        "Conor was making fun of Nate for growing up poor. He was making fun of him for getting such a low fighter salary, that he teaches BJJ for money", 
        "Conor is the guy that talks shit to fat girls, but is the biggest chubby chaser after a few beers.  He was on welfare a few years ago.  Apparently the shame of that still stings, so he was to toss that shame onto anyone he thinks it'll stick to.  Look at that guy, he's so poor!  Don't ever suspect I'm poor, my suits are expensive!\n\nI love his attitude and owning the loss, but shaming others for economics is fucking shitty.  He's one loss from Edgar away from irrelevance.  He didn't lose to a WW, he lost to a LW that couldn't cut in time.  He flew too close to the sun and really needs to make sure he comes back as dominant as ever, or he's going to be a story of being another Chael Sonnen.", 
        "At least Nate was working while Conor is living on the dole.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah I understand he said that but he also mocked Nate for being poor, calling him broke and a bum.", 
        "And then look at this cunt making fun of Diaz for being poor. I know Nate don't give a fuck, but man that's just a low, low thing to do. \n\nI will forever enjoy every beating mcgregor gets, every trickle of blood running down his face knowing what a deplorable human being he is for making fun of Nate for this among other things. I hope he gets Edgar next and that Edgar demolishes him. That he gets RDA soon who eats him alive. That he gets Nick who tears off his knee. That he one day faces Lawler so he can be wheeled out on a stretcher. \n\nFuck mcgregor and his fans. \n\nMaking fun of the poor just hits too close home for me. My family is pretty loaded and privileged, but my best friend from my childhood came for the poorest possible upbringing, to the point that my parents even regularly bought his younger sisters clothes because his mom couldn't afford them. Poverty is not something you joke about. \n\n \n", 
        "Man that's pretty shitty because my understanding was Conor came from shit as well. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This is one of the best comments I've never seen guilded. I would give you gold but I'm poor a f.", 
        "Thanks, man. Don't worry about it. Your compliment is plenty.", 
        "> Overcoming shit makes you stronger. If you're pampered and handed everything, you have little incentive to grow and develop.\n\nBeing handed stuff can be extremely toxic to personal development if you are not given any context. My parents are well off and I am extremely grateful for the safety it provides. But they always made it clear how fortunate we are and I am glad I have never made the terrible hazing jokes my schoolmates made. Since I started training Jiu Jitsu though, I feel like I can finally earn something with blood, sweat and tears. The personal development I have gone through and the many unpleasant things I found out about myself through it are invaluable. \n\nBut I have also met lots of people who may have faced too much adversity. And many become bitter. There is probably no real right way of being brought up (rich or poor). It's mostly about honesty towards yourself and integrity. And that is something you can learn whether you are rich or poor.", 
        "Especially after watching old videos of Connor when he didn't have shit either, that bothers me a lot.", 
        "Conner puts on an act for the media in the same way that Diaz does. I wouldn't take anything he says in front of a camera when promoting a fight at face value.", 
        "Except Nate isn't poor nor broke, that's what bothers me. He just has less (I think) than Conor... And Conor doesn't have SHIT if you campare with the real money makers like Mayweather ", 
        "Yeah but both guys know that nate is very well off in reality. The 20/20 stuff isn't all he's getting lol... that's a joke. The UFC likely has him on a long term contract where he wanted more up front for signing and WAY less on a per fight basis. That's why Diego Sanchez got I think it was 70/70 disclosed. And he's REALLY not that big of a draw.\n\nNate is rich and he knows it. The insults from conor hype the fight.", 
        "did conor GROW up poor though? i kno he was on welfare or whatever living in the basement of his parents house. but did he have the kind of hard young life nick and nate did growing up poor with poor parents? ", 
        "Nope. Not any reason to believe so. Apparently his parents are fairly well off, he lived in some decent suburbs. Pretty average. I mean, money isn't the only thing that can make your childhood rough, but it doesn't seem like he struggled with money. ", 
        "It's all just hyping up the fight. Connor recently donated something like $50,000 to homeless shelters in Ireland.", 
        "Y'know how I know he isn't racist...?: He has loads of black friends.", 
        "Just because you're trying to hype something up doesn't mean you shouldnt be held responsible for the things that come out of your mouth. ", 
        "I think it kinda does I don't know... I don't think a guy like Mike Tyson would be as legendary if he wasn't going around telling people he was going to eat their children. And if you hold someone accountable for saying you're going to eat their children in pre-fight hype I mean... Come on. \n\nAnd for conor I think especially with this loss he's shown that the humble in victory or defeat thing is for real. He handled that loss like a champion should.\n\nSame goes for Bisping, he was rude as FUCK to silva. After the fight they had a sick moment of mutual respect. I think you need to be able to separate the hype from the fight and the aftermath.", 
        "No. Because Conor still mean these things. He doesent magically come up with it all, these are his thoughts.", 
        "Just like Diaz should be held accountable for slinging wild steroid accusations ", 
        "Actions speak louder than words, can't fault McGregor for capitalizing on the words that generated him the popularity to make a ton of cash, every time I read something about him outside of the cage it sounds like he's a hell of a dude that took advantage of his situation.", 
        "Exactly, Conor had a hard time too which is why he should know better than to insult someone for being poor as he knows how hard it is.", 
        "He's making Nate rich though. ", 
        "Well Nate isn't poor now. This story is from when he was a kid. Conor was just doing the usual \"you're a bum but I'm gonna make you rich. TANK ME!!!\"\n\nAnyway, it's all for show. The irony is these 'low blows' actually hype the fight up and it's what MAKES Nate RICH AS SHIT.\n\nSo even if we pretend Nate is still in poverty which he of course isn't it would be a paradox because the more Conor insults him for needing to work balloon animals the richer nate becomes.\n\nBut it's all moot because it's just trash talking. Do you really think Conor thinks Nate Diaz makes balloon animals to get by?", 
        "Jesus it's his persona... and who the fuck gives a shit? Nate is not going to go home crying because of that.. he is not going to pull back from the fight thinking about how big of a loser he is... It's entertaining to watch for some.. Some of us don't like seeing good guys... some of us like to see assholes kicking other assholes in the face... or assholes kicking good guys in the face. ", 
        "Could have been grand puppet master Dana?", 
        "Conor had a hard time? I wouldn't call it that, he quit his lucrative career as a plumber to live off welfare while he worked on a hobby.", 
        "At least Conor had a family that wasn't dirt poor, and could provide decently for him. A 'rich kid', isn't that what Nate called him? ;)", 
        "Conor's poverty is a myth. He grew up comfortably middle class. He was on the dole as a way to be independent from his parents. They wanted him working blue collar jobs.", 
        "I have heard this too, but Conor has talked a lot about working hard for little money and being on welfare. Do you have a link about this?", 
        "In Australia, an apprentice would be seen as working hard for little money. Being an apprentice (especially if you live away from your parents) would entitle you to certain welfare. I don't know if Ireland is the same, but if it is, then you could absolutely say that about your situation and still be comfortable. ", 
        "I'll have to dig around for it. I just read about it but it's why Nate was saying Conor grew up rich on that CNBC interview and why Conor basically didn't deny it. ", 
        "ok wtf is dole? Was he being sustained by pineapples or some shit?", 
        "dole 1  (d\u014dl)\nn.\n1. The distribution by the government of relief payments to the unemployed.", 
        "He's from Crumlin which is one of the most notorious places in Dublin and his dad was a taxi driver. He's not middle class. His accent is working class too. ", 
        "We're only disagreeing on terminology. I'd argue that working class is middle class. Poor means you don't always work and don't always get to eat.", 
        "> He grew up comfortably middle class. \n\nNo one grows up comfortably in Crumlin.", 
        "His parents owned their home in Crumlin that doesn't sound like he went hungry. Are you really going to start the my hood vs your hood stuff?", 
        "I just don't think \"lived comfortably\" happens in extremely rough areas. You're presenting it like he was privileged.", 
        "You are seriously nitpicking to try and just be right. He also lived in Lucan but I'm sure you'll tell me he barely ate there too. Both are suburbs mate. ", 
        "Conor never lived in any kind of abject poverty. He just didn't have a job, lol. He lived at his parents house in a middle class neighborhood. ", 
        "Thank god someone said it. Conor just wasn't well off. He was from a working class family like most of us. That's why Nate called him a rich kid. Conor's family could provide for him for years and years while he trained and didn't make any money. Nate didn't even get to eat a lot of days. In perspective to nate, conor was a rich kid from the burbs. ", 
        "He's from Crumlin. Not middle class. His dad was a taxi driver.", 
        "Exactly. Living paycheck to paycheck and occasionally missing rent isn't poverty. Not eating most nights because you couldn't afford food is real poverty.", 
        "But rags to riches isn't as cool when you have a stable, reliable, generous support system.", 
        "I honestly think that this is the reason why a lot of Americans lean conservative, even when they don't have anything. \n", 
        "Something I just came across: \n\n\"The results were clear and consistent. Moderates and conservatives were most accurate in their predictions, whether they were pretending to be liberals or conservatives. Liberals were the least accurate, especially those who described themselves as \u201cvery liberal.\u201d The biggest errors in the whole study came when liberals answered the Care and Fairness questions while pretending to be conservatives. When faced with questions such as \u201cOne of the worst things a person could do is hurt a defenseless animal\u201d or \u201dJustice is the most important requirement for a society,\u201d liberals assumed that conservatives would disagree.\"\n\nFrom *The Righteous Mind*.  Chances are you have zero clue why people lean conservative.  ", 
        "Why, because you think I'm a liberal? Awwww, that's cute. \nBut yeah, sounds like a fairly interesting book.  Thanks.", 
        "The political commentary karma beg is usually obvious.  You're no exception.  ", 
        "Your condescension just irks me so much. I think I'm gonna have to off myself, I can't live with the shame of being soooo far beneath you.  Promise me, that you'll write something nice and have it engraved on my urn.", 
        "Everyone wants to feel 'Self Made'. Let me tell you how you should pull up your boot straps!", 
        "Indeed.  ", 
        "Thanks for clarifying that. Big difference in poverty levels. Not only that, Connor was working as a plumber and had his parents to help him out once he quit his plumbing job so that he could pursue his career. Diaz pretty much had to do MMA to survive. ", 
        "Clarifying this, he was a plumber's apprentice, it's like a on the job work program but closer to being an intern. If his family had money he would be in college and not an apprenticeship.", 
        ">If his family had money he would be in college and not an apprenticeship.\n\nnot everywhere is the USA mate ", 
        "Literally survive. Like. Not make ends Meet. As in, he couldn't eat. ", 
        "Actually poor people who make it out are the people least likely to have sympathy.  The thought mentality becomes: \"I got out of there, why can't you?\"", 
        "Your comment is bullshit.", 
        "and Ex-fat people I've noticed.\n\nI've never really been fat, and it's not something I think about much either way, but my fat friends who've gotten fit are ruthless on anyone even slightly overweight.", 
        "That's probably only if you got out by yourself. I'd imagine it would be a lot different if you were helped out a lot", 
        "I don't know about that. Growing up like that I understood why people stay in poverty. I spend a lot of time with at risk youth, and their parents. If you can recognize the root causes you can help people out of the cycle of poverty, abuse and addiction. That's at least what my upbringing as rough as it was did for me. Obviously your experience may be different. ", 
        "I don't have such an experience.  It was a study that I read awhile back that showed poor people themselves are the most likely to be altruistic and the people least likely to help are those who dug themselves out.", 
        "You often see a similar mentality with fat-to-fit people, and former addicts, too.", 
        "Only have experience as an addict, out of the areas of life mentioned, but in my experience, ex addicts are really fuckin nice people and are always willing to drop everything to help an addict in need that asks for it. Much more than people who've never experienced addiction first or second hand. ", 
        "I get this to fat people since I was fat until my 20s then managed to master weight loss down to a science in the next 5 years. Although getting out of being fat is much more under someone's control then getting out of being poor.", 
        "Depends how you define poor. Losing huge amounts of weight is probably not much easier than walking into 100 different businesses and offering to work hard for minimum wage.", 
        "Minimum wage is definitely still poor, it's barely living wage. Even if that.", 
        "Well sure but you can afford to eat and live in a home.", 
        "As an ex-homeless person this is something I struggle to keep at bay. I feel pretty disgusted when I catch myself in this kind of thinking.", 
        "That's actually very kind and thoughtful of you. And I'm glad you're doing better now <3", 
        "I really appreciate that, thank you. I'm in a great house and have an okay job. I try to volunteer at shelters when I have the time. I just started boxing again too.", 
        "You're a good dude. ", 
        "You flatter me.", 
        "Do you know where it's mentioned Conor grew up struggling? His father described him as a normal kid in a normal suburban neighborhood, so it's a bit weird that they wouldn't mention struggles.", 
        "That stupid image with the quote saying he was making dog shit while his girlfriend supported everything he did. usually on Gym meme type pages on Facebook titled \"relationship goals\".", 
        "Yeah to be honest being on the dole in Ireland sucks but it's a different kind of poor. Also, correct me if I'm wrong but his parents seem to have been doing ok? \n\nWhilst he still did really well for himself and all I don't think it's fair to say he had the same lvel of struggle. Especially when you start considering things such as healthcare and what not being available. ", 
        "And being on the dole doesn't mean you're 'poor' it can just mean you don't want to work. If you're passion is martial arts then being on the dole could be a very smart decision until you're able to turn it into a career which might not happen for 10 years and even then it's a long shot.", 
        "Yeah Conor never struggled with money, he was just a boring ass plumber in Ireland. ", 
        "Wasn't he on the dole at one point? ", 
        "Everyone goes on the dole at some point. He probably lived with his parents at the time anyway. ", 
        "Okay, thanks. Not familiar with it, but I assumed it was the Irish equivalent of welfare.", 
        "It is, it's unemployment benefit, we say the same thing in the UK too. ", 
        "If he was a master in plumber in the US he'd be making bank. My buddy pulls in 6 figs doing plumbing.", 
        "I didn't like the comment because it implies he coaches because he doesn't have money. Nick and Nate strike me as the guys who would be in the gym training and teaching martial arts regardless of the money they have. Fighting just seems to be their life as opposed to a means of income or occupation. \n\n", 
        "Actually, I hate to go against the narrative of this sub as of late, but both the Diaz bros have said in various ways that they only fight because it's the only thing they're good at and they still need to make money somehow.\n\nNate said in an interview the other day that he's \"institutionalized\" by the fight game, meaning it's all he knows and all he's good for (think \"institutionalized\" the way ex-cons use it). Nick has said plenty of times that he both loves and hates fighting, because he never got an education and it's the only job he can make any money doing (watch the interview of him leaving one of his NSAC hearings).\n\nEssentially, they only fight for the money. I'm not criticizing this at all, for the record. I totally understand what they mean, and more power to them. They came from nothing so at least with fighting they've changed their lives.", 
        "Totally, I thought it was such a shitty way to even try to insult someone: that the diaz's act all hard but really they teach little kids how to defend themselves with jiu-jitsu. Like you got him there conor, turns out he's not really an asshole at all...", 
        "Absolutely. Nate has mentioned that he has no hobbies. All he does is train.", 
        "That's actually surprisingly common among elite level athletes", 
        "I swear, nick and nate are like the best possible example of how sports can give youths a purpose and help turn their life around. Now they're doing the exact same thing for other kids in their neighborhood. Really commendable. Also, super entertaining to watch them try and kill people while locked in a cage. ", 
        "Yeah the article the quote comes from kind of emphasizes that at one point. Sounds like Nate's teachers didn't even think he would stay out of prison but he followed Nick into fighting, thank God", 
        "Obviously a different personality, but Marshawn Lynch is the same. Grew up dirt poor, made it big, and is now doing his best to give back to his community and its youth. The more I read about the diaz brothers the more I like them.", 
        "Its pretty likely that both of them would have criminal records had they not gotten involved in martial arts", 
        "They keep it too real to not be locked up.", 
        "Nick's coach said that he was turning towards gangbanging and street fighting hadn't he made the choice to dedicate himself towards this profession. Nick stopped going to school around Grade 10 to pursue this. Here's a link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5A-gIlhayB8 I may have misinterpreted some things but that's the gist I got out of it. ", 
        "Hey, they're not outta the woods yet. Starting fights in hospitals and shit lol", 
        "Do tell. ", 
        "There's an animated cartoon that tells the story much better then I do. Youtube it", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QybqrxyFSKs\n\nYou're welcome.", 
        "https://youtu.be/QybqrxyFSKs", 
        "Google Diaz vs Riggs hospital ", 
        "I tell everyone that will listen how awesome Nate is. ", 
        "Ya gotta preach it brotha!!! Lambaste even the non listeners with knowledge.", 
        "He did just jack your post-fight bonus record, though. :)", 
        "You actually interacted with him full time in the TUF house before he was even famous (the little fame he got from being Nick's brother aside). How was it? I did watch the season, but it was years and years ago.", 
        "Nate was of my favorite guys in the house. He was there to get better and do the best he could, just like I was. We were on opposite teams and everyone was scared to fight Nate. Everyone would start with... \"Well I would fight Nate, but I think I match up better win so and so.\"\n\nI said straight up, I thought Nate was the best on their team and I wanted to try to take him out. If we got control, I wanted to try to beat Nate to hit their confidence. \n\nTeam Pulver had control for the first few fights so I was chosen by the other team to fight Brian Geraghty. Then I fought Cole to start the next round... Which I don't remember how that came about. Nate ended up fighting another team Pulver guy since they won 5 in the first round and we only won 3. ", 
        "Ninjas don't fight to fuck shit up, ninjas fight to make the shit better.", 
        "I always said the media and low level fans always try to paint and picture the Diaz bros as the ''bad guys'' They're clearly good guys with not much in terms of schooling and education. So they fought to survive.", 
        "You're on steroids. ", 
        "They have started brawls and started fights at the hospital.  The problem is people seeing black and white.  Like everyone else in the world, they have their good and bad qualities.", 
        "BUT /u/woodlandmetal they say mother fucker.... ALL THE TIME!", 
        "good point lool", 
        "But /u/Jack_Donaghy_Jr, I sell drugs to the community. ", 
        "but /u/young_war that's a service to the community, and entrepreneurial spirit!", 
        "HOW MAN TIMES I GOTTA TELL YOU NOT TO CALL HERE INterrupt my Kung Fu? ", 
        "that's a great line from a fantastic film.", 
        "Hush little girl, a lotta cats have that name", 
        "Euphoria shut the fuck up!", 
        "I KNEW IT WAS YOU, I DIDN'T EVEN HAVE TO LOOK!", 
        "\"I wanted dinner every day.\"\n\nDon't we all Nate, don't we all.", 
        "What a freakin\" diva! Dinner.......pft! ", 
        "this made me laugh. followed by a heavy dose of self-loathing.", 
        "Too many dinners?", 
        "Train by day eat dinner at night, every day!", 
        "I'm sure his childhood is part of the reason why he's so close with his bjj class.", 
        "Those are his kids.", 
        "Seeing Nate Diaz on r/all makes me happy.", 
        "My thought exactly!  Ive been a huge Diaz bros fans for close to 10 years.  Pretty awesome to see them getting some good publicity.", 
        "Eat your burritos. ", 
        "you're a burrito.", 
        "Burrito Diaz beats Steak Conor", 
        "You see kids. Eat your Burrito because there's a young Stockton motherfucker somewhere in the world that as to do BJJ before eating one. So be thankful.\n\n", 
        "You're on burritos.", 
        "Bud I just spewed tea all over my workplace hahaha ", 
        "They're all on burritos.", 
        "Who the fuck is on burritos? I'm not on burritos! ", 
        "Burrito's in his head.", 
        "Reminds me of this story about Nick\n\n \"Nick Diaz - Coming from a troubled past of delinquent and criminal behavior, he has changed his life for the better by finding a different path. With the introduction of jiu-jitsu, Nick was able to shed the image of old and start anew. Now known as an intelligent fighter coupled with explosive striking skills, Nick can claim what very few can, Welterweight Champion of the World.\"\n\nhttp://i.imgur.com/ZzAMSxX.jpg", 
        "Dude's shirt has a typo on \"anew.\"", 
        "He might not even be able to read his shirt.", 
        "Aoki is still one of my favorite fighters ", 
        "The og limb collector. You'd be hard pressed to find a fighter with grappling as violently creative as Aoki.", 
        "So sad to hear kids going hungry.  Credit to those older guys who gave bought food for them out of their own pocket.   There's a lot of good people in the BJJ community.  Diaz teaching kids classes could be partially his way of giving back to the community that support him.", 
        "Burritos and BJJ, bringing people together one roll at a time!", 
        "Cant forget mdma", 
        "Really goes to show how far Nate and Nick have come and what they had to overcome. Happy to see what's happened to Nate.", 
        "Definitely. Love seeing him getting this kind of exposure as well. If facing Conor was red panty night... I wonder what beating him gets you...", 
        "Thus proving again that burritos are love, burritos are life. ", 
        "Chipotle should jump all over this", 
        "Coincidentally, burritos are one of many good reasons why I'm not a professional athlete.", 
        "[source](http://www.mmafighting.com/2012/5/4/2998733/a-tale-of-two-diaz-brothers). One of the best mma articles I've ever read.", 
        "Thanks, great read", 
        "It was my first mma article that i've read and it was amazing, i even copy-pasted Nate's quote to the list of my favorites quotes for self-motivation(often i do it in a drunk-high state as is right now) Nate is like my favorite person right now, but couple of days ago i watched a documentary about Conor and he was my favorite person at that moment and it's like a rollercoast of emotions for me and i love it, go MMA, go BJJ, go UFC yu-whoooooooo!!!!", 
        "thank you for that link. I knew kids like this growing up and so glad that there are success stories.\nI have always admired the Diaz brothers because they over came so much. Their rough edges are just a reminder to them and really, us of what they had to deal with growing up.", 
        "A big thanks to all men and women who nurture by demonstrating leadership, discipline, and care. ", 
        "So fucking proud of this kid for trouncing on MacGregor... He fucking deserves more than anyone (except his brother). ", 
        "It makes me so happy to see Nate take over the front page. ", 
        "This is exactly why I didn't like it when Conor's shit-talking started to revolve around the Diaz brothers not having much money.  Not only was it a low-blow, but not long ago Conor himself was hurting for cash.  I grew up really poor, and having people poke fun at your living situation was fucking rotten.  I was a Conor fan up until that point.", 
        "ehhhh but Conor came from nothing also, I think it was more of a \"you've been doing this a long time and don't have much to show for it\" kind of taunting", 
        "\"Fuck you, got mine\" still makes you a dipshit.", 
        "was he really poor though? like dirt poor growing up the way nick and nate were? before he made it big he was training and on welfare. but was his parents poor? they were at least able to let him live in the basementbof their house, while he was training and on welfare. so if his parents arnt poor, i highly doubt he grew up poor. ", 
        "Not really, their house is fairly nice, the town they live in is semi-rough though but i dont know what part they live in so it could have been not bad at all.", 
        "Yeah I mean if he just brags about how much money he makes then I guess that's fine. But trash talking Nate for being poor? Fuck off", 
        "Yeah, McPrick & his \"I'm so rich\" non-stop bullshit is so far beyond annoying, it's not even funny.  Watching him get choked out was about the best thing I've seen in my life.", 
        "> Conor's shit-talking started to revolve around the Diaz brothers not having much money. \n\nthis and his comment about teaching kids was uncalled for.\nLeave kids out of it, period.\n\n", 
        "How can you hate the Diaz Brothers?\n\n", 
        "Um... Their personalities?", 
        "I think they're loud and obnoxious, complain in defeat([on condit](http://bleacherreport.com/articles/1080478-nick-diaz-talks-loss-to-carlos-condit-failed-drug-test-retirement-and-boxing), [making excuses about getting handled by GSP](http://www.mmafighting.com/2015/1/22/7875459/nick-diaz-thinks-he-would-ve-beaten-georges-st-pierre-if-theyd-fought), [accused GSP of being on roids](http://mmajunkie.com/2015/12/nick-diaz-georges-st-pierre-was-on-steroids-when-i-fought-him), [somehow thinks he beat Silva](http://www.mmafighting.com/2015/2/1/7959033/nick-diaz-believes-he-beat-anderson-silva-i-don-t-know-how-they-judge)) start fights after matches([with khabib](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbkrNxd4Oh0), [also with khabib](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQUq9iQZyJ8), [against mayhem miller](https://vimeo.com/11678678),[with KJ Noons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tlZhPJY2wo4),[no context on this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qiP_b-MCf3I),[fought joe riggs in a hospital after a fight](http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/haymaker/remembering-the-epic-nick-diaz-joe-riggs-hospital-throwdown-080114)), and get gifted matches for doing what I explained above. Specifically Nick who's been boring as hell to watch his past 3 fights but for some reason /r/mma keeps persisting the myth that \"the diaz bros always come to fight\"", 
        "That's because GSP was roided out.", 
        "Yeah, its always amazing how people will ignore these types of facts. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm a fan of martial arts before any of that noise ;)", 
        "> When Nick was fighting GSP he was literally Hitler\n\n...", 
        "If all I saw about them was their in ring and fight setup antics I wouldn't like them.  \n\nBut seeing them behind the curtain and what they had to do to survive really makes me like them.  ", 
        "That's how it was for me. I only ever saw them in and around the ring, and they kinda rubbed me up the wrong way. But after seeing how respectful he is after fights, and the sort of upbringing he's had, and the stories such as the one at the top of this thread, I've actually grown quite fond of him. ", 
        "And Conor was laughing to Nate because he doesn't have a lot of money. Irish prick", 
        "LOL he says that to everybody he fights. It's trash talk.", 
        "He was making fun of him for being on that shit 20/20 contract. If you think Conor was making fun of him for growing up poor you're delusional", 
        "I don't think he really means that. He gets carried away in the hype he's (successfully) trying to generate for the fights.\n\nNate wasn't giving him much in the way of ammo, not that it makes it ok.", 
        "Well I think Nate doesn't give a shit about Conor's trash talk :)\nThat was just my humble opinion", 
        "I'm sure with all the challenges Nate has faced in his life, what Conor McGregor has to say isn't even remotely close to being on his radar.", 
        "What does Conor being Irish have to do with anything?", 
        "Well ask him, he is always bringing that up :)", 
        "> he is always bringing that up :)\n\nand the belt too", 
        "Definitely a prick. But was Irish really a necessary qualifier? ", 
        "And then look at this cunt making fun of Diaz for being poor. I know Nate don't give a fuck, but man that's just a low, low thing to do. \n\nI will forever enjoy every beating mcgregor gets, every trickle of blood running down his face knowing what a deplorable human being he is for making fun of Nate for this among other things. I hope he gets Edgar next and that Edgar demolishes him. That he gets RDA soon who eats him alive. That he gets Nick who tears off his knee. That he one day faces Lawler so he can be wheeled out on a stretcher. \n\nFuck mcgregor and his fans. \n\nMaking fun of the poor just hits too close home for me. My family is pretty loaded and privileged, but my best friend from my childhood came for the poorest possible upbringing, to the point that my parents even regularly bought his younger sisters clothes because his mom couldn't afford them. Poverty is not something you joke about. \n\n ", 
        "Sorry to hear that buddy. Hope he is doing well now", 
        "He's doing well in college, actually studying to be a social worker now to help others in his position :) and his littlest sis just got a Grant to go study in the US because of her little articles on poverty and her experience!", 
        "Lmao who downvotes this? Just how pathetic are you nuthuggers really?", 
        "we're toghether man, tired of those little bitches saying that mcgregor is a great guy. hes a piece of shit imo andhe and his fans would be talking a lot of shit about diaz right if mcgregor had won.", 
        "Not a prick. That's part of UFC.", 
        "but he's so humble in defeat, blah, blah, blah", 
        "My main problem with Conor's shit talking is he says truly awful stuff about people out one side of his mouth, and then tells us all how humble and respectful he is out the other. \n\nHe talked shit about Pioriers family. He called Siver a Nazi. He trashed Diaz for teaching kids bjj and mocked his intelligence. \n\nThe guy is an asshole who refuses to accept responsibility for acting like an asshole.", 
        "And he keeps saying \"I'm taking this loss like a man!\" when he's really making a ton of excuses. ", 
        "And he hasn't excuses about the lost but..", 
        "Energy efficent conor\n\nSea level cain\n\nFull power jones\n\nWho else am i missing", 
        "100% Weidman\n\nClear throat Sage\n\nOxygen Mask RDA\n\nGlove touch Erick Silva\n\nAnyone else?\n\n", 
        "Wasn't there a 70% Hendricks after he fought GSP?", 
        "eye poked rumble.", 
        "Look in his eye Chuck", 
        "When did full power jones become one? ", 
        "Serious Anderson Silva ", 
        "> Sea level cain\n\nExplain this plz? I see it a lot but no idea what you guys are referring to.\n\nThanks in advance!", 
        "I can't tell if you're joking but I'll answer honestly just in case. When Cain fought Werdum in Mexico City for the strap last year, he waited until 2 weeks(?) out from the fight to Train in Mexico City, which is at high elevation in comparison to where he usually trains in the US (at AKA in San Jose, I believe). Werdum spent his whole camp in MC training in less than desirable conditions to prepare. Cain gassed out in round 2 and got subbed.  \nTo be fair, a LOT of the fighters on that card were not prepared for the elevation and gassed or threw up post fight. It was a tough event for everybody, especially Cain. Also Cain had a significant layoff in between fights due to injury thanks to bad conditioning coaches and/or glass bones disease, so he had significant ring rust which could have also accounted for his loss. Werdum actually went into that fight the interim champ as a result. ", 
        "I wasn't joking - plenty of explanations, yours very detailed. Thanks!", 
        "> Who else am i missing\n\nWhen Cain fought Werdum, they fought in Mexico City, that has an elevation of 7000+ feet  To put that into perspective, Denver, which is notorious for exhausting fighters, has an elevation of ~5,200 feet.\n\nThe air is thinner at higher elevations so Werdum showed up early so his body could get used to the higher elevation.  Cain didn't and during the fight, he winded fast and wasn't getting enough oxygen for his high intensity, grinding style of fighting.\n\nPeople joke or maybe serious that if Cain fought where the air was normal, he would be able to impose his game plan.\n", 
        "I think it was something about thin air and training at sea level", 
        "He lost to Werdum in their fight in Mexico at high elevation and blamed it on the fact that he didn't have good cardio because he wasn't acclimated to it. \"Sea Level Cain\" would have beaten Werdum. ", 
        "Sweet thanks, I knew he gassed, just didn't know Mexico city was so high up!\n\nThanks :)", 
        "A lot of people claimed Mexico City's altitude as being the reason why Cain lost to Werdum, which is BS because Werdum had to deal with the altitude as well, and was smart enough to move into Mexico City a few weeks before the fight to get acclimated to the less dense air.", 
        "Sweet thanks, I knew he gassed, just didn't know Mexico city was so high up!\n\nThanks :)", 
        "Cain fought Werdum in Mexico City, which is high above sea level.\n\nHe gassed very, very quickly which is unlike Cain. People put it down to the difference in altitude. Werdum turned up way before the fight to get his body prepared for training that far above sea level, Cain didn't.\n\nand as a result, people think Cain had a poor performance due to the altitude and not so much Werdum being better.", 
        "Sweet thanks, I knew he gassed, just didn't know Mexico city was so high up!\n\nThanks :)", 
        "2200+ m (7300+ ft) above sea level, and Werdum went even higher to train in a mountain. While it could have influenced Cain's performance, I think it was simply that Werdum is straight up the better fighter. But yeah, Mexico City does have a pretty high altitude.", 
        "Just go on any thread in /r/mma and you'll find the full list. ", 
        "Full camp Mendez. ", 
        "no camp nate ", 
        "Ten day Diaz.", 
        "10 days plus training for a triathlon ", 
        "After the fight he said he'd just gotten back from a Cabo vacation where he got sick.", 
        "Oh boy if we could see full camp Nate against Conor :)", 
        "Dont forget Motivated BJ Penn and 20% Weidman", 
        "This is the truly motivating quote which people can relate to. ", 
        "I've eaten thousands of burritos and I still don't have a blue belt.", 
        "I can't remember the last time I was this genuinely happy for a fighter.", 
        "I didn't like him but now I have no choice.", 
        "Now I'm craving a burrito.", 
        "horrible.  inspiring.  honest.  sad. cool guy", 
        "TIL burritos make you a champ.", 
        "Oss\n", 
        "Man. I don't understand why everyone spells this wrong.\n\nOSU.", 
        "Theres 2 meanings. 2 words. Also OSU, is pronounced oss. Thats why people spell it that way, which is correct.", 
        "No it's not. There is a romanized way of writing out Japanese words and this isn't it. There aren't two meanings. They are the same colloquial meanings. That's like saying krazee is fine because it sounds like that.", 
        "to be fair, the spelling/pronunciation/meanings of many words have changed over time because of widespread common use, especially if adopted from other languages.", 
        "Sure. I can agree to that. But the meaning of Osu and ostensibly, \"OSS\" is the same. It's just been misspelled and has been only recently because of the internet and that people who specifically started training in BJJ had never really seen it spelled before correctly. \n\nI have a blackbelt in Kyokushin Karate and have always known Osu as such and have seen it spelled in romaji and kanji many times in my Judo and Karate classes. When taking BJJ classes all over the country I have only seen it once in Kanji, at Team Quest in Temecula, CA. And they had no romanized spelling. However the Brazilian instructor there at the time (forgive me, I don't remember his name) would say \"Osu!\" a lot and have us repeat it", 
        "i know how you feel. im a sushi chef and really like tradition, but you gotta deal with the crap too", 
        "Well according to /u/perfectposture because I have a few downvotes, it means that Japan is wrong in how they want people to spell their words. ", 
        "? I never said it was wrong. BUT OSS IS ALSO A WORD.", 
        "It's the same word as Osu, it's just spelled wrong. ", 
        "its ok relax", 
        "I can't relax man. These people spelling words all wrong and shit. Gotta fucking fight them all. ", 
        "*OOL", 
        "http://www.bjjee.com/articles/the-meaning-of-oss-or-osu/", 
        "Except that's not true. The kanji romanized is still \"OSU.\" I studied Japanese for several years and lemme tell yoy, Oss is a misnomer because they had never seen it spelled with romanized letters. The same as jujustu vs jiujistsu.", 
        "Oh ok, so you just have something with bjj. Just went through your post history because i thought maybe you just wanted to throw in your 2 cents but no. You're an asshole. A lot of down votes and disagreeing with you. Heres a tip, stop being a dick.", 
        "I don't know what you mean with \"something with BJJ.\" \n\nDownvotes don't fucking matter when you're arguing something. So tell me, master of posture. What is your argument against the fact that a stupid article which isn't true is being called out? \n\n[This Kanji](http://cdn2.bigcommerce.com/server2700/c7fd2/products/103/images/1363/Osuscanedit__22705.1376636106.1280.1280.jpg?c=2) is still romaji as \"Osu.\" No matter how many downvotes I get and no matter how many articles are drummed up. I didn't make the rules, man. That's just how it is spelled. ", 
        "Something against Brazilian Jiu jitsu. The way it was founded. You have a problem with it. Also, down votes and karma just show if people agree with you AKA think the way you do. No one agrees with you. No one thinks like you. You're an uptight, egotistical asshole. I got that off your first comment.", 
        "And yet somehow I'm not wrong. I don't have a problem with BJJ. I have a purple belt in it. I also have a black belt in Kyokushin and a brown belt in Judo. \n\nPeople can disagree with me all they want, but that doesn't mean that I'm wrong in how Japan wants their words spelled. Because there is an entire country of people who agree that Osu is spelled that way. They agree with me. You might not, but I don't really care if you do or don't. I care that you are wrong. But in the end, you'll say more dumb shit like, \"NOBODY AGREES WITH YOU BECAUSE YOU HAVE DOWNVOTES!\" and not actually look into it because that's too hard and doesn't have enough crayons for you to write with and I'll move on and just go study more shit. Sorry for your lack of ambition to learn more stuff, dude. ", 
        "Jesus christ you're a salty cunt.", 
        "The sweet taste of being right has no flavor, friend. ", 
        "Nate and Nick are gdamn heroes. ", 
        "use a black border around text so it's easily readable on all backgrounds", 
        "Fuck, now i want a burrito. ", 
        "Every time i hear something new about the Diaz brothers like this, it makes me like them even more.", 
        "Huge Nick and Nate fan. I feel like I relate to them in different ways as I'm sure many do.  They feel like the biggest underdogs in the sport. It seems like the establishment truly does hate them because they don't conform to their vision is of the ideal fighter.\n\nI was beyond ecstatic to see Nate take that win the other night, I love how it was such a middle finger to the entire UFC. Nothing can hold them back.", 
        "they've always been my favorites.. they are genuine people..they crack me up..they are loyal and I just love them and always root for them when they fight.", 
        "BJJ literally gave them life.", 
        "Nate really needs to get out of his comfort zone and do the press thing. He just earned 15 minutes in the light; he needs to turn a fighter into a personality. \n\nPeople need to know the story of Nate. The institutionalize fighter who keeps coming back after every loss. The indomitable spirit. Give people something to get behind. If he makes people care about him, win or lose, he will get those fights.", 
        "I really hate that this is how it has to be. Why can't the fighters just fight, and we watch them because they are incredibly skilled athletes? Why do they have to become characters to make any money as a fighter? It's not the WWE. A narcissist like Conor loves to create a character and do that whole thing, but some fighters don't want to. I feel like even 2 years ago, no one thought that you had to do that to be successful. Conor has literally changed the way people think about fighter's careers.", 
        "You don't have to be a character, you just have to be a person. The problem is that fighters either create a show persona or just remain shut-ins. *Except the women, they seem to get it.* \n\nConor was the biggest name, biggest draw in the UFC. Most people watching that fight watched because they had heard of CM (or Holly), not because of Nate. But right now Nate is sort of a big deal. A talkshow might invite him on, or Sports News programs. \n\nHe doesn't need to put on a show. He just needs to show up and say, \"I'm Nate, I'm the guy you only know because I kicked some other guy's ass. This is who I am...\"\n\nGuess what happens next time he has a fight? People who heard the story of Nate might think, \"that Nate-fighter-guy has a fight this weekend, we should watch it. Cheer him on with all those kids he helps in Cali\". \n\nGuess what happens with the UFC finds out that people are buying PPV or supporting UFC because of Nate? He gets the fights he wants! It is really that simple. Not being a clown for the masses, just getting out and make it know you're more than \"some ufc guy\".\n\nThe woman actually have been doing this -- I think RR put on a bit of a show, but she was the first so I don't blame her. Holly was out doing talk shows and other things and I bet some people tuned in because they got connected to her personality. Hell, I got connected to her personality. \n\n\n\n*edit* Also release that most people don't follow these people like we do, so the vast majority of PPV buyers really don't have a clue who Nate is beyond a few hilight clips of him dropping f-bombs.\n", 
        "You do understand that the largest affect on the \"draw\" of a fight is how much the UFC spends on advertising the fight, right? Conor was the biggest draw in large part due to just how damn much the UFC shoved him down our throats. \n\nI guess I was just saying that I wish that hardcore MMA fans were enough to satisfy the UFC. Then we could see the best fighters fight the best fighters. We wouldn't have to see fighters not get fights because another fight might \"make more money\", etc. That part really bugs me, because I am watching MMA for the sport. Not for the stories and rivalries. I would so much rather see RDA fight the winner of Khabib vs Ferguson, and Nate fight Eddie Alvarez, than see Nate go fight Robbie Lawler or get thrown to RDA again.", 
        "I would disagree, if it was only advertising and not characters that sold, every equally marketed event would have the same number of views. And the UFC would quickly learn to market like crazy.\n\nI get that we might wish it was different, but it isn't. All sports create personalities to drive interest. Baseball is an entire sport about personalities. Wayne Gretzky is one of the biggest reasons Americans watch hockey, and he hasn't played for a decade. The super bowl, ERRMAHGAWED Tom Brady Vs Payton Manning!!!!!\n\nAnd in the fight game, where there isn't a schedule of matches, promoters aren't just going to pick the best fighters to fight, they are also going to pick the fights people want to watch. And just like people are drawn the the Manning Brothers, people can be drawn to fights. So the guys that people want to watch get the fights they want -- they aren't gifted the title but for sure they will get a faster and more frequent shot at it because everyone who is rooting for that fighter is sure to tune in. \n\nJust get out there, do some interviews, and be yourself. People will enjoy it and watch more fights.", 
        "Maybe he's not a media whore that craves attention. Maybe he just wants to get paid and fight. ", 
        "He obviously isn't a media whore. But right now he becomes the bad-guy to get fights. I'm saying he has an opportunity to change that. So either whore it up now or whore yourself out as the bad guy to be slain by the guys that whored it up on MSM. Either way, you gotta be a dirty little slut to get fights -- or never ever lose. After Conor's next fight is announced Nate's media value will plummet.", 
        "Wasn't a fan until I read that. Now I am", 
        "Hardship galvanizes the strong and destroys the weak", 
        "I like this.", 
        "That's awesome. ", 
        "It's crazy how some people become great.", 
        "And then look at this cunt making fun of Diaz for being poor. I know Nate don't give a fuck, but man that's just a low, low thing to do. \n\nI will forever enjoy every beating mcgregor gets, every trickle of blood running down his face knowing what a deplorable human being he is for making fun of Nate for this among other things.  I hope he gets Edgar next and that Edgar demolishes him. That he gets RDA soon who eats him alive. That he gets Nick who tears off his knee. That he one day faces Lawler so that he can be wheeled out on a stretcher. \n\nFuck mcgregor and his fans. \n\nMaking fun of the poor just hits too close home for me. My family is pretty loaded and privileged, but my best friend from my childhood came for the poorest possible upbringing, to the point that my parents even regularly bought his younger sisters clothes because his mom couldn't afford them. Poverty is not something you joke about. ", 
        "Nate and Nick are true, genuinely good people outside of the cage. They deserve to have their stigma erased, at the latest, after they both retire. If the bad guy image gets them fights then fuck it, be the bad guy. But they deserve nothing other than respect. ", 
        "Nate and Nick act all hard, and you can tell it's from a legit hard upbringing.  They just wanna do their thing.  They seem like great guys, just different. ", 
        "> legit hard upbringing\n\nmany fighters have it like that, IIRC palhares grew up in a pig farm ", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers. ", 
        "You could say he was a real hungry fighter.", 
        "Really really delighted for Diaz' turn of fortune. If anyone deserved a big pay day, it was him", 
        "You realize after this Conor is still going to make more than him, and he will be unlikely to get the same level of pay again for a while right.  \n\nedit:  You new mother fuckers haven't been around to see this before but the Diaz brothers don't play the pro fighter game. Walk out of talk shows or don't do real interviews at all, when you do you say like 1 word answers the whole time.  Hardcore fans dig this shit up, but the casual fan never knows it happens, never sees it, never cares, never pays for the event.  The Diaz brothers could be making more but they only have themselves to blame for not. ", 
        "Lol. Who wants to watch that pussy ass bitch fight and lose again..", 
        ">pussy ass bitch \n\nYou fucking kids. I swear you think hiding behind a keyboard makes ya tough. ", 
        "Lol. I know you ain't shit.", 
        "It happens all the time. It's shit though - Amir Khan, Adrian Broner and other flamboyant boxers have consistently made more than other fighters who have put in better performances. \n\nHe's been given the keys now though - hopefully he can push on from here. If he can't, at least he had one life changing pay day. \n\nConor will always be big - a combination of KO power, wittiness and willingness to take on anyone anywhere (much like BJ Penn) means that he demands attention by the general public. \n\nJust look on here, when he was winning fights there were tons of posts about him and not so many about Jose. Now that he's lost, people want to talk more about that rather than Nate's success. ", 
        "If he/Nick are smart they'll start to show this side more often. They'll make a lot more money. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah, as far as I remember he was the only one who did that, so he definitely deserved it.", 
        "I'm new. How much of a big payday are we talking? How much more than if he had lost?", 
        "Ya the guy outside the top 10 LWs deserved it more than the other guys at LW", 
        "Amen!", 
        "Connor was going to call out Nick later down the line...\n\nNick would have eaten him like a piece of cheesecake.\n\nShit, full camp nate would have too.", 
        "How do you know he was going to call out Nick?", 
        "Connor said in interviews and twitter if nick wasnt suspended thats the fight he wanted.", 
        "thanks", 
        "RIP McGregor", 
        "He was interested in fighting Nick, but the suspension still has a ways to go. http://www.mmafighting.com/2016/2/25/11111334/morning-report-ufc-196-conor-mcgregor-nate-diaz-nick-diaz-holly-holm-ronda-rousey-mma-news", 
        "The other bonus for Diaz is if McGregor starts racking up the wins again, people will want to see a rematch. Diaz will have another big paycheck.\n\nI disagree with the Lawler match up though. Seems like Dana is forcing Diaz to move up a weight class, when I think RDA vs Diaz rematch makes more sense", 
        "Yeah, I think Diaz/Lawler is a little premature. I'd love to see him fight Dos Anjos though. I think he's on the up and up though and I wouldn't put an eventual Lawler fight out of the question.", 
        "I just rewatched that Nate vs RDA fight. Nate had NOTHING for him. RDA warmed those legs up.", 
        "Nate's heart was not in that fight. He had just come off a hiatus, he wasn't happy with the way UFC was treating its fighters and you can tell he wasn't fully committed when he came in 4 pounds overweight.\n\nRematch will be different. Don't be scared homie", 
        "Damn you really changed ur stance from saying nate was a joke of an mma fighter", 
        "I checked /u/hughie-d comments he said the Diaz bros were in his top 5 before the fight and I haven't seen any Nate hate? Can someone provide proof or drop it?", 
        "When did I say that? What I actually said was two of my favourite fighters were fighting and no outcome would not leave me despondent. \n\nEDIT* Downvotes instead of answering the question from a guy who created an account 11 days ago - about right.  ", 
        "I checked out your history, you spoke highly of the Diaz bros before the fight. Not sure why you're being downvoted.", 
        "I think they have me confused with someone else. But it's all good. ", 
        "They all try to save face. Except for /u/duckmadfish who hasn't logged in since, and /u/synth-strider who has deleted his account.\n\n/u/hughie-d is still a bit in denial though, saying Round 1 was a \"master class\" and a \"wash\" for Conor.", 
        "How did you score Round 1?\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "So how did you score, it sems like you are avoiding the question. ", 
        "Nate has explained that he didn't do anything in Round 1 because he didn't have time to spar, so he was picking up as the fight progressed.\n\nSo yeah, technically Conor won round 1. But to say that it was a master class from Conor is simply denial on your part buddy.", 
        "So for Conor? Not sure why you are arguing with me then. ", 
        "Because it was nowhere near a 'master class'.", 
        "Oh cmon, let's be real here. Yes, Conor was outclassed in the match but he dominated the 1st round because he fought better, not because Diaz let him...", 
        "He didn't dominate the first round at all. Conor was only really doing well at the beginning of the second round. Those were his best moments. In the first round he wasn't connecting on most of his strikes.", 
        "Who did you score the first round for? ", 
        "http://www.fightmetric.com/  \n28 vs 23 significant strikes. That's no where near \"outclassed.  \nI get how it can seem like Konnor went HAM in that 1st but I have to believe it's because of all the oooh's and aaah's from the audience. It was a pro-Canor crowd and they were reacting to his every movement which made it seem like he was the only one doing shit in the 1st. It's just not true", 
        "stats don't paint full pictures, just from watching it a couple of times Conor was definitely doing much better until he got rocked in second half of round 2, diaz wasn't having anywhere near as much success until that punch\n\ngreat fight, if nate didn't have a granite chin he would've been knocked out by then", 
        "Mcgregor was tired and that's why he got caught, he said it himself in his interviews. He didn't manage his energy efficiently, used his gas in the first, Diaz took it like a Diaz does, and then Mcgregor lost a step, he even said it himself he started missing and Diaz just stayed in his face and boxed him up. \n\nDiaz fights the way he does and takes damage because he has an Iron chin, if he didn't he'd fight differently. Mcgregor didn't take that into plan, he fucked up.", 
        "Diaz always seems to start slow. Look at the Michael Johnson fight as an example of this.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "But they're ALL autistic over there", 
        "He probably has him tagged in RES as a punk ass bitch something or other ", 
        "Don't we all?", 
        "u/duckmadfish doesn't surprise me, he'll be back though, I actually find him more tolerable than most. No idea who u/hughie-d is, but u/synth-strider never struck me as a McGregor fan from what I remember. Can anyone who had much interaction with him verify?", 
        "I invite you to look through my posts, I am a McGregor fan but I always try to support my views with facts. I don't know where they got the idea that I ever shitted on Diaz though. I think they are upset that I am not wailing or whatever. \n\nI have a suspicion that a lot of the people who call me a nutthugger are simply McGregor haters and their following of MMA comes second to watching McGregor fail. ", 
        "> I always try to support my views with facts.\n\nAnd fail miserably. lol", 
        "Have we ever even conversed on here before. I swear to god this whole thing has been bizarre, I had people I never heard/read a comment from before tagging me and giving me shit. \n\nAnyway, care to back up your point or is it just a comment to nowhere. ", 
        "Poor you. lol", 
        "Good one. Keep up the lols mate, that type of sign off suits you. ", 
        "SAY NO TO ACRONYMS", 
        "Listen man, I have no beef with you. Truth be told told this guy sounds like a bit of a dickhead calling all these people out after they've  gone. Why wasn't he doing this a week ago?", 
        "You've been a redditor for 2 days...alt account?", 
        "Nope, as I stated in a previous comment I've been lurking on this sub for well over a year now. Though if it helps, I used to have an account here which I deleted months ago, u/Chrome-Brutus.", 
        "Sure you have.", 
        ">Truth be told told this guy sounds like a bit of a dickhead calling all these people out after they've gone. Why wasn't he doing this a week ago?\n\nU wot m8? Do you know me? I've been calling /u/duckmadfish out on his bullshit for a very long time, but every time I said anything negative about McGregor I was met with an avalanche of downvotes.\n\nSo don't you be calling me a dickhead now.", 
        "No I don't know you, your business with u/duckmadfish is your own. But you should be the bigger man and not kick people when they're down. What's your history with u/hughie-d and u/synth-strider?", 
        "Who cares? Seriously? Acting like a bunch of petty high school bitches", 
        "Shit I didn't mean to come off as aggressive with you, I was just sort of defending myself. I have no idea where this came from, it started yesterday, but people I have never noticed before have started tagging me and calling me a nutthugger. I don't think I have ever interacted with them before but they had me tagged from before. \n\nAgain, apologies for coming off as aggressive, it wasn't my intention at all. ", 
        "No worries man, you're fine.", 
        "/u/tdiz deleted his shit after he \"couldnt wait to see all the excuses after nicks little brothers head is bouncing off the canvas haha\" they're all the same", 
        "Hopefully under all these guys new accounts they aren't even subscribed to this sub. ", 
        "Hahaha I like that you guys are keeping track of the bums that talked so much shit before the fight but now are nowhere to be seen.", 
        "Well you thought Nik Lentz would beat Mcgregor in fairness", 
        "Nate Diaz changed their bum life.", 
        "Yeah... lots of people talk shit before fights, but deleting your account or not showing up after to take your lumps is just cowardly. ", 
        "And now it's burrito night, every night. \n\n", 
        "Burritos really are the best. This just affirms that.", 
        "Did they get to train for free though? Now that shit costs $$", 
        "BJJ/Martial Arts culture is that you give free lessons in exchange for cleaning if kids cannot afford lessons. \n\nKeeps them off the streets.", 
        "mmm Mexican Food", 
        "I know the bjj gym I go to, if there's someone that really wants to do bjj, but doesn't have the funds our coach will make it work.  He'd rather have people passionate about the sport then people that just pay the fees and go to some classes here and there.  ", 
        "I love shit like this.", 
        "until someone proves it's fake lmao", 
        "I love this. ", 
        "All the more reasons to love the Diaz brothers", 
        "Proving the old adage true that the hungriest fighters are the most dangerous", 
        "That's why I don't know BJJ, because I can't find a class next to a decent taco truck.", 
        "This is why they started calling fighters hungry back in the day. ", 
        "I have been so lucky in my life to never experience that. This is why you volunteer, bitches. ", 
        "Right in the feels", 
        "And you still have people all over Reddit sucking off McGregor for being a \"humble\" loser while shitting on Nate. It's truly fascinating how people that don't know what they're talking about won't take 3 minutes out of their day to actually learn something about someone.", 
        "a blue belt with a full stomach. The Diaz brothers will always be my favorite", 
        "Well stockton is crime.ridden. he must have had a hard childhood growing there.", 
        "Started from the bottom now the whole fuckin team here!", 
        "he's a hungry fighter", 
        "Taco bell should sponsor him!", 
        "Now I need to go watch all his fights instead of shit talking about him.\n\nI figured he was just a bully or an asshole. Turns out he's a diamond in the rough.", 
        "This is how most people see them. Watch their outside of the ring videos. They are really professional and do crazy triathlons, have bjj black belts. If you think about no way are the Diaz brothers thugs.", 
        "Wait so was the gym free? How can he afford a gym but not a burrito", 
        "Can you make the writing smaller? I'm on mobile. ", 
        "This sub just jumps from bandwagon to bandwagon depending on the winner. Why cant it be cool to like both fighters", 
        "Bro, how long you been here? This place loved the Diaz brothers before this fight happened. Get off that nonsense. ", 
        "I'm pretty sure the majority of the sub that watch mma fights other than just conors (dont really want to say hardcore) do like both fighters. It's probably just the influx of people from outside the sub who are commenting.", 
        "Or hate McPrick's guts because they're so sick of hearing him tell everyone how rich he is.", 
        "ok", 
        "And yet people still call that irish cunt the 'inspiration'. ", 
        "[This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_JZom_gVfuw) should be the Diaz bros' theme song/walkout music.\n\n    Super Nintendo, Sega Genesis \n    When I was dead broke, man I couldn't picture this\n    50-inch screen, money green leather sofa\n    Got two rides, a limousine with a chauffeur\n    Phone bill about two G's flat\n    No need to worry, my accountant handles that\n    And my whole crew is lounging\n    Celebrating every day, no more public housing\n    Thinking back on my one-room shack\n    Now my mom pimps a Ac with minks on her back\n    And she loves to show me off, of course\n    Smiles every time my face is up in The Source\n    We used to fuss when the landlord dissed us\n    No heat, wonder why Christmas missed us\n    Birthdays was the worst days\n    Now we sip champagne when we thirsty\n    Uh, damn right I like the life I live\n    Cause I went from negative to positive\n    And it's all... (It's all good)\n    ...and if you don't know, now you know, nigga", 
        "Nates from the West Coast and comes out to his fights with 2pac songs. I see where you are coming from it makes sense but Biggie is east coast", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Point here is both guys needed some type of support to get where they are at. I'm a fan of both guys big time, but, determining who had the tougher life would be impossible to determine from where we are sitting. There are many different variables at play here. Both guys felt they deserved more and worked their ass off to get it.", 
        "I feel sorry for you with all that hate and denial.", 
        ">Somehow he thinks the world owes him something.\n\nWhen has he ever said that? Source?", 
        "It comes across in his persona. He acts like he deserves the world and everything in it. It was interesting seeing how he reacted to someone actually of a similar size to him (a fully grown man). I'm from liverpool UK and there are lots of people like him in boxing and Muay Thai gyms around here.", 
        "Everyone feels they deserve more, some are just more vocal about it. Let's not pretend he didn't work his ass off to get it.", 
        "I'm not saying he doesn't work hard but he honestly portrays himself as being almost supernatural. And as we have seen with his most recent fight: he clearly doesn't work hard enough.", 
        "I think the lesson for him here is dont underestimate why weight classes are in place. Think his work ethic was the same, but, who knows. ", 
        "I think there was more than one lesson to be learned from this experience, but that is certainly one of them.", 
        "Right, so what gym was he training at that let him train for free? Cause if he couldnt afford food he must have been training for free. ", 
        "Lots of gyms would make a deal if the kids cleaned the mats they could train for free. One of my friends who fights used to do that", 
        "But thats not what he's saying. He's saying he mooched off his training buddies for burritos after. So you are assuming he did all that, on what grounds?", 
        "I never said anywhere in my comment that's what Nate did. I was just giving you an example of my friend who used to clean mats at the local Mma gym and they would hook him up with a membership. I was just saying that's one possibility ", 
        "I always wonder about this too when I hear these kind of stories. My son wants to train bjj, but that shits not cheap.", 
        "The place I go to teaches it for free, sadly no free burritos though.", 
        "I've hear this before. How did you go about it?", 
        "It's a ministry funded by a church. Essentially it's free mma classes targeted towards anyone, troubled youth for example (such as the Diaz bros). Been learning mma for almost 3 years now. The only money I've spent is  for my own gear and better equipment for the dojo. Being free has drawbacks though. We couldn't even train bjj until the class pooled enough money together to buy a matt. I'm 19 btw been doing it since 17. I'm so glad I don't have to shell out  hundreds of dollars to train \ud83d\ude00", 
        "Ok, nice. Thanks.", 
        "I don't Know about the gym Nate went too put a lot of gyms in my area often offer free classes to underprivileged kids as an excuse to keep them off the streets. Those kids will often help clean up and shit ", 
        "If we'd find out some kids wanted to roll but were too poor I think we'd let them train for free at our gym too.", 
        "when i took karate as a kid there were two brothers that were poor that the guy who ran the place let come for free as long as they worked hard and helped him out around the place. Its kind of a neighborhood thing, i know its a common trope in movies that someone takes in the neighborhood kid who doesnt have anything or always gets in trouble it happens in real life. I mean who knows, maybe Nick would always be looking in the window watching the kids train and mimicing the moves outside on the sidewalk and the guy who runs the place just got a soft spot for them", 
        "I used to play for a soccer club in Claremont California  called the Foothill Storm. i was living with my mother at the time, who was struggling with two jobs and graduate school. We were too poor to pay the fees so the club heavily subsidized our bill or sometimes just said \"you don't have to pay x amount this time\". It was really a godsend. ", 
        "A friend of mine and her husband always ask the coach at the beginning of the year if there is a kid who can't pay or is struggling to pay to play their sport.  \n\nThey always offer to pay for that kid.  It's an awesome thing to do and I've thought that when I have kids in sports I want to do the same thing. ", 
        "Paying a membership once a month when you get a check so your kids have some place to stay off the streets and then being too broke to afford dinner a week later isn't hard to believe at all.", 
        "This was a pretty smart decision by their mom, shoutout to Mrs. Diaz", 
        "That's beautiful.", 
        "I am at work and this hit me a little harder than I expected, wtf. ", 
        "Are there any articles similar to this one about other fighters? Love these human interest pieces. ", 
        "Go to ufc's youtube channel and watch Embedded and Countdown videos. \n\nEmbedded videos are short vlogs that show you what fighters do, a week before the fight. \n\nCountdown videos are a bit longer that focus on the narratives and stories of fights. Also great watch. \n\nEDIT: Here is a cool one about Nate's brother, Nick - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MTvQtR2Cl10", 
        "Necessity is the mother of all perfection ; reminds me of a chinese kungfu teacher I had, still feel like his disciple, who would walk 2 hours a day to go to school and who walked those two hours in xingyi lines.\n\nHow the fuck can I compete with that ? Especially when he says pushups aren't necessary ; of course they aren't when you do lines for 2 hours a day !\n\nDon't we feel lazy with all our electric staircases !? ;) lol", 
        "> xingyi lines\n\nI'm curious, what are these?", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tjcsD1n8UU", 
        "exactly, they are commonly called lines, it's basically a repetitive movement, something like a block followed by a punch, etc., \n\nimagine him doing things like that but in a straigth line, walking for miles https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iQZ3xn-UmjI", 
        "I hear ya but it's hard to be too critical when he steam rolled his entire division in devastating fashion. Feel his miscalc was the same tricks used in 145 would work in 170", 
        "Will 'jits for food.", 
        "this is what i hated about my mcdojo. You had to pay about $200 for every belt advancement. and i was about 2 or 3 belts away from black before i could no longer afford to train and could no longer show up. kinda sucks. i wonder how different my life would be if you didnt charge so much or if i could have worked for training. ( like cleaning etc.)", 
        "Ab rulaey ga kya.. Paglay..!\n", 
        "this dude seriously needs the push hes talkin about from the ufc to be a daym superstar", 
        "One day people will realize all the talking before hand is to sell the fight, with probably a touch of animosity. Otherwise they are genuinely decent people, some from more humble beginnings than others.", 
        "This makes me dig this guy even more. True heart.", 
        "I can imagine hin saying theae without saying motherfucker ", 
        "Eat your burritos.", 
        "Maybe Cesar Gracie does deserve 20%.\n\nNah.", 
        "What happened to Caesar?? Havnt seen anything about him in a long time", 
        "simply fascinating", 
        "That's that shit i do like!", 
        "Similar story with Aldo. Showing up to the gym was how he would get his one meal a day. ", 
        "I love the Diaz Bros. ", 
        "Bless his heart. ", 
        "Anyone else tear up after reading this shit? ", 
        "That's cool that he got train for free. Here it costs like $300/mo.  \nedit: Now. I've seen some gyms that charge that. Growing up training I was able to take as many classes as were ever offered for the $30/mo. my parents paid for the dojo. It's crazy.", 
        "Great quote. He was literally hungry. ", 
        "How many people would watch the WWE if no drama was involved? Makes it alot more interesting", 
        "Hespect", 
        "Nate you make me want to eat a burrito right now", 
        "This really makes McGregor's comments on Diaz's financials more dickish durring the hype build up.\n\nLike a step above Jon Bones messing with DC. Sorta, anyways. ", 
        "not as interesting as the buildup between BJ and GSP. they actually showed GSP collecting garbage.", 
        "What's the specific context for that? BJ = garbage? GSP has the word saint in his name?", 
        "No, its that Bj grew up rich and GSP didn't. Gsp was busting his hump", 
        "McGregor vs diaz is the first time I paid any attention to the hype. Seeing them on CNBC was excellently surreal. ", 
        "That's relative. You are a latecomer, so all you know is this", 
        "That's relative. You are a latecomer, so all you know is this", 
        "burrito jiu jitsu", 
        "Not to sound like a dick, but who was paying for this training? I can't imagine a parent paying for martial arts training when they can't put dinner on the table. Is there something I'm missing?", 
        "yes, poor kids train for free in most shitty areas. ", 
        "Burritos are fucking awesome.", 
        "A lean and hungry look \n\nhttp://www.enotes.com/shakespeare-quotes/yond-cassius-has-lean-hungry-look\n\nhttp://dictionary.reference.com/browse/lean-and-hungry-look", 
        "I knew I had seen that before... http://imgur.com/XEtC3VV", 
        "Burritos.....is there anything they can't do?", 
        "All hail Burrito! ", 
        "Now that is MOTIVATION! Heart melting... ", 
        "How was he able to pay for training if he couldn't even buy dinner?", 
        "I was never a big Diaz Bros fan, but their story and Nate's post-fight comments and interviews are a fuckload more inspirational than anything about McGregor. ", 
        "But gyms cost money???", 
        "Here's a must watch Nick Diaz Tribute: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5A-gIlhayB8", 
        "Fucking America. Letting kids starve.", 
        "I got a job as a software developer because I realized \"damn... If I don't work... I won't be able to afford food... Shit\" \n\nI wanted dinner everyday so now I go to work every day. I feel your pain Nate! ", 
        "Hes too white too be poor!\n\n-Bernie Sanders", 
        "he latino doe", 
        "How does someone afford BJJ class but not afford some groceries? Legit question I'm not trying to be a dick.", 
        "probably didn't pay anything", 
        "trainers probobly knew they were poor.", 
        "\nGood Guy instructors if that is the case.\n\nEdit: down voting me for saying the academy providing their services for free to a couple poor kids makes them good ppl? Odd choice.", 
        "im one of those trainers. its true ", 
        "Oh, but I thought white people didn't know what it was like to be poor?", 
        "Diaz is Chicano..", 
        "Burrito Jujitsu ", 
        "my reaction is equal parts:\n\n\"The Aristocrats!\"\n\nand\n\n\"Welcome to America!\"\n\nsad.", 
        "ok serious question. \n\nwho paid their gym fees?\n\nwere they also getting BJJ training free?", 
        "according to Bernie Sanders, Nate Diaz is lying", 
        "nate be like I see a fajita. ", 
        "WTF kind of burrito provides more calories than you spend in a BJJ session?", 
        "good thing bjj found them in usa and they're on our side!\n\ncould be the story of hungry kids in iraq/syria being indoctrinated into a much worse cause!", 
        "I call bullshit. Bernie sanders says only African Americans can be poor. ", 
        "Nate started when he was 14. When I was 14, I had a part time job for spending money. If Nate was so hungry maybe he should have gotten a damn JOB like able bodied people do when their families need money. Nick too for that matter. The Diaz brothers never stop throwing pity parties for themselves about their money situation. Meanwhile, the rest of us work for a fraction of what they make fighting. Fuck them. ", 
        "Fuck this. That type is so goddamn tiny. ", 
        "And even after all of that charity, both brothers remained total loudmouthed assholes to this very day.", 
        "http://www.mmafighting.com/2012/5/4/2998733/a-tale-of-two-diaz-brothers\nHe's like that on camera because he's going to be fighting an opponent and doesn't want to make friends with someone he's going to end up trying to beat or be beaten up by. According to him, and many accounts of interactions with diaz, he's a complete nice guy, not really an asshole", 
        "It's humorous how many of you Nate Diaz fair weather fans just ignore that entire round and a half where Conor was out-striking Nate, slipping his punches and catching him with hard shots.  You're just selectively remembering Nate tapping out Conor.  \n\nThere are a lot of knowledgeable, intelligent MMA fans on this sub, but, honestly, a lot of you are bandwagoning morons who know nothing about fighting and only think in black and white.", 
        "And you're selectively not remembering all the shots he blocked/parried, and kicks that Conor threw that flat out WHIFFED.", 
        "Uh, Nate said so himself: he wouldn't have gotten hit by any of the stuff Conor threw if he had had a proper camp. He would have been \"on point\" as he said. And, Nate said that he needed a round to warm up. After the first round it was just a matter of time. Nate got his second wind and figured out the distance not to get hit by Connor. What Connor showed was how limited his skill set is. He has a solid left hand but he was outboxed and was taken to school on the ground. ", 
        "\"...he wouldn't have gotten hit by any of the stuff Conor threw if he had had a proper camp.\"\n\nThat's just silly.  Nate is extremely hittable.   I think Nate would have gotten hit by Conor's shots even if he had a proper training camp.  Nate had a proper training camp for the Michael Johnson fight and got lit up the first round.\n\n\"What Connor showed was how limited his skill set is.  He has a solid left hand but he was outboxed and was taken to school on the ground.\"\n\nConor has an immense set of skills.  His striking is dynamic, fluid, unpredictable, and is tremendously more diverse and abundant than Nate's.  Conor will throw a jab and straight left, a lead uppercut, a power uppercut, a flying knee, a spinning back kick, a front kick, an armada kick, a head kick and a hook kick.  Also, I think Conor completely outboxed Nate that round and a half, as he was slipping Nate's punches and countering with hard shots.  However, I give a great amount of credit to Nate for being able to take all of Conor's punches; his chin is unbelievable.\n\nAs far as the ground, Nate has incredible Jiu-Jitsu, so there is no shame in Conor getting tapped out by a high caliber black belt like him.  Despite what everyone seems to think, Conor has great Jiu-Jitsu, which he displayed when he swept Nate at the end of the first round and managed to turn out of Nate's guillotine in the second.  Also, Conor being exhausted and rocked definitely was a factor in him being submitted.  However, I am not taking anything away from Nate, as Conor lost fair and square. ", 
        "Where do I find a jiu jitsu place that will allow me to train and feed me burritos if I have no money?\n\nI went to a place in LA and they wanted $175 a month.  Maybe it's just the LA market, but I wouldn't mind getting the Nate Diaz special.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This sounds like bullshit... ", 
        "are you serious?? Theres hundreds of thousand of people living in poverty in the us who cant afford to eat even once a day...", 
        "Really? I didn't know.", 
        "I find it hard to believe that he used the word \"terribly\"", 
        "And he didn't use the word \"motherfucker\" once.  ", 
        "You're just mad McGregor lost.", 
        "mad? lol I bet on nate  \nedit:typo", 
        "Last year?  Nate Diaz just fought, dummy.", 
        "woops my bad was reading article on nick right now", 
        "You actually think they're dumb? You think you could teach someone with an IQ of 80 to beat Connor McGregor?", 
        "I dont think hes dumb he just doesnt talk like that", 
        "You obviously didn't watch his Fox post-fight interview. The dude can explain himself. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hg6NkqFPOyY", 
        "Yea people were mocking him for being dumb beforehand, but I can guarantee you that Conor wouldn't have the ability to drop the word institutionalized into conversation like that.  ", 
        "Im convinced NSAC are trolls", 
        "This wasn't a coincidence, they did this on purpose.", 
        "Trying to break up the brothers. Encourage Nate, punish Nick.", 
        "this is almost as good as the gamergate ep of SVU being written by Dick Wolf.\n", 
        "420 is too much of a coincidence ", 
        "so on 420 Nevada State Athletic Commission will remove marijuana  from the list of banned substances", 
        "Well it *is* exactly 45 days after the fight. \n\n45 days is probably the standard suspension time for cuts on the face that require stitches. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Exactly there bud, so he is suspended UNTIL the 20th. The 19th is the last day the suspension would be active. ", 
        "Get out of here with your logic and reasoning.", 
        "Funnier every time I hear it.", 
        "Hate logic, ruins all the fun", 
        "Same. Nick pleads the 5th and gets 5 years... Trololol", 
        "/r/NotTheOnion", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/Kf1EP0I.gifv", 
        "Hey. \nI like you. ", 
        "This plus that trial where someone said \"just for clarification we have Diaz 1, 2, and 5\" convinces me completely someone over there is having a laugh.  ", 
        "Three, sir!", 
        "THREE!", 
        "Three shall be the number thou shalt count, and the number of the counting shall be three.", 
        "So you're essentially saying that four is right out, yes?", 
        "[Context for newcomers.](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/3kxybu/diaz_125/)", 
        "I'm not surprised mother fuckers ", 
        "*Ay", 
        "I really want a compilation of Nate Diaz saying \"motherfucker\"", 
        "there's not enough internet for that.", 
        "God damn. The event that keeps on giving. UFC196 never die!!!", 
        "Everything about this event was just a ton of fun from the moment Nate was announced.", 
        "If only there were some bigger names on the main card other than the main and co-main events. Would have been so perfect.", 
        "Still got post fight drug test results.", 
        "Yeah most of those fights sucked dick.", 
        "The prelims were fun though.", 
        "I was hoping Latifi could smash out another sweet knockout victory but that fight ended up being a slog. That was disappointing. ", 
        "Yeah only other satisfying moment was that Brazilian douchebag with the fake tap getting knocked the fuck out that was funny as fuck.", 
        "Ya silva vs taleb. Taleb looked on point, I've never seen the guy fight", 
        "Indeed. It was lacking until the Holm fight. But even that fight was lacking to the main event. I was on an adrenaline high it felt like til 5am after. ", 
        "Taleb's knockout was pretty sick, especially after the douche move Silva did in the first", 
        "That was prelims", 
        "I don't know how you can say that! Siyar v Brandon Thatch was a closely contested war and the Afghani proved a lot of haters wrong. Lawlor v Anderson was the one fight I was genuinely disappointed with because neither went nearly as hard as they could.", 
        "yeah, I could have saved some cash and a brutal hangover  if I knew I'd feel that good after anyway.", 
        "I layed down at 3am, saw the pfp conference posted, watched the whole thing, then watched every other interview by Diaz and McGregor after. Didn't fall asleep til fuckin 5 and I was drunk n high. ", 
        "Me too, and I watched the fight at least 5 more times. What a night.", 
        "Dude Tate vs. Holm was a bad ass fucking fight.. ", 
        "Compared to that main though...", 
        "I'm still insanely happy about Nates win. Ive been a self admitted Diaz nutthugger for many years. I was losing my shit when Conor shot in for a take down. \n\nTill the day I guarantee thinking about this fight will put a huge smile on my face.", 
        "I was so fuckin happy for nate I literally sreamed and kicked shit arround. Cant remember last time i was excited like that.. Heart won", 
        "Yeah I'm happy for him. I remember watching him first on TUF and I've seen every fight of his since. He's one of the sports realest characters and I was sad to see he stopped fighting as often and wasn't getting the money fights. Thank God he lit up Johnson and called out McG. Now I feel we've got an extremely rich and motivated Diaz on our hands, or maybe he just buys a bunch of cocaine, weed and hookers and turns into the Wolf of Stockton. I think I'd be happy for him either way. ", 
        "So happy he shut that Irish %#$% up. His bandwagon are still annoying. Nate is an inspiration just by succeeding. Hopefully he picks the right fights from here on out.", 
        "He deserves the payday and hopefully this opens up bigger fights and bigger money for both he and Nick", 
        "even though I wanted mcgregor to win I am also happy for nate.  He deserves this and I hope it continues for him. It's good to see. ", 
        "haha! agreed. Im so happy we have a Diaz brother on a hot streak. Its the most entertaining shit ever", 
        "One of the top twitter comments:\n\n\"Why is that so surprising? He took a lot of damage\"\n\nthe ultimate whoosh moment lol", 
        "To be fair, as an Australian/any non-American, the date format of 4/20 is confusing in and of itself. We need to travel an extra step to get the irony. ", 
        "so... when y'all are looking for a high it's called 20/4? ", 
        "No, because it's not original the date that refers to getting high, it's the time. \n\nWe don't write the time as 20:4pm", 
        "No they call it 5. \"Wanna get five?\"\"", 
        "I'm European and everybody fucking knows what 4/20 is.", 
        "Wow man, talk about whoosh moment. I'm saying we know what 4/20 is, but the immediate focus is on deciphering the date format. ", 
        "I still have a vague understanding of what that date means, save that it has something to do with weed.", 
        "Well, it's 100% American in origin so I could understand people from other nations not getting it.", 
        "Remember when the Taco Bell exec did an AMA and claimed to not know what 4/20 is? ", 
        "I do not and have full faith Reddit will deliver the link as I'm too lazy to search on mobile ", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/21il1d/i_am_brian_niccol_president_of_taco_bell_today_is/cgdczxe", 
        "And there it is! Thank you kind stranger!", 
        "Ain't no thing! I'm at work and a little bored hah", 
        "He took a lot of damage -> He took a lot of hits", 
        "April 20th, is that like when the April showers begin?", 
        "It's Hitler's birthday. Nate's a white supremacist, Duh", 
        "It's the 17th anniversary of the Columbine shooting. Nate's a charter member of the trench coat mafia, duh.", 
        "Good thing he's got some great medication.", 
        "[**@shaunalshatti**](https://twitter.com/shaunalshatti):\n>[2016-03-07 21:34:37 UTC](https://twitter.com/shaunalshatti/status/706956243194265601)\n\n>Guys, I swear, you can't make this stuff up. Nate Diaz is medically suspended until 4/20.\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/49exon%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "Nate will be in a bud coma till then anyway, I bet this will be the most enjoyabe forced suspension he's been given.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He was actually on vacation before the fight in Cabo where he got poisoned by the water.\n\nLook at his face, no bruises/cuts", 
        "Seriously though, can they use medical marijuana if they have a license? Or are you guys just talking crap? I thought you can't smoke period if you're under contract?", 
        "they're not tested for recreational drugs outside of competition.", 
        "So if he smokes a week before being called for a fight how do they determine that it was outside the competition frame? ", 
        "I'm gonna guess they have the concentration of traces of THC in his system. From that, I'm certain they can tell if it was a few days ago or weeks. \n\nSource: Used to do drugs", 
        "What do you mean they have the concentration of thc in his system?  Like they have a concentrate taken from his system or they always know the levels his system is?  \n\nI don't think they make tests that can accurately pinpoint how long it's been in his system yet. I've smoked for years.\n", 
        "You're right on the accuracy bit, but I know they can infer from the concentration result from the test. ", 
        "They can, but the levels required for a suspension aren't as bullshittingly low now", 
        "There's a threshold for whats active in your blood. Easy to tell.", 
        "A week before the fight would usually be considered in competition. Once a fight is booked and they are in a training camp that is \"in competition\". Nonetheless the levels they test for on fight night are high enough that you would need to have smoked within the last few days for it to register.", 
        "Yea but what about if they fight without notice, without camp, like how Nate just picked this one up with Connor with 2 weeks notice.\n\n", 
        "No he asked about a week before they're called, not a week before the fight, so before they even know a fight is happening?", 
        "> *And if he breaks it we'll suspend him for 5 years.* \n\n> *For his own safety, of course.*\n\n- NSAC", 
        "The Diaz story keeps getting better and better.", 
        "that's whats up", 
        "Celebrating recreational cannabis to the maximum effect! Quick shout-out before I go...", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers.", 
        "r/nottheonion", 
        "So did Diaz pass his post fight?  The short notice thing is what has me worried", 
        "What does this meam exactly?", 
        "45 day medical suspensions are standard for nasty cuts", 
        "So... a standard 45 day suspension? It's fun to laugh at the coincidence but I'm pretty sure most of you goofs actually think the NSAC did that on purpose. ", 
        "The coincidence is crazier though! Odds are 366 to 1!", 
        "FOOKIN BLAZE IT BRO", 
        "The crazy numerology conspiracy theorist was right all along!\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xWMRgvmExjw", 
        "Dude this guy is the MMA conspiracy guy on the Tommy Toe Hold Show!", 
        "That was weird.", 
        "Bonkers", 
        "Ayyyy", 
        "What a time to be alive", 
        "Interesting. I wonder if Conor got medically suspended too", 
        "Just until St. Paddy's Day", 
        "No. Kavanagh said he didn't on the MMA Hour.", 
        "McGregor got no medical suspension.", 
        "that doesn't seem right. Did Conor not get concussed in the 2nd round?\n", 
        "It may have not been a big concussion, but even getting wobbled off a head shot is atleast a grade 1 concussion.  Mcgregor probably had a grade 2", 
        "really? It seems insane, both took some good shots.", 
        "I agree, with the new findings on how serious brain damage is, they should medically suspend fighters 3 to 9 months depending on how much damage they took in the fight.", 
        "Nate needed some stitches though, the Diaz bro's cut quite easily, so much scar tissue", 
        "Is normal ", 
        "1 Diaz/Lauzon fight for bloods sake please", 
        "Maybe they could have a 3 way brawl with Forest Griffin.", 
        "Throw in Rory and Condit for good measure. You could fill a swimming pool.", 
        "Don't forget Clay \"The Bleedah\" Guida", 
        "A lot of athletic commissions issue automatic 45 day suspensions for cuts on the forehead and face. I'm guessing they use an automatic 45 day suspension for a cut that started on 3/6.", 
        "is normal", 
        "Beastin 4:20! ", 
        "This week just keeps getting better", 
        "I hope he really takes time to rest up and M^e^d^i^c^a^t^e", 
        "Nate's a charter member of the sports realest characters and I watched the whole thing, then watched every other interview by Diaz and McGregor after.", 
        "Kavanagh said he didn't on the main card other than the main card other than the main and co-main events.", 
        "This is simply brilliance. NSAC have to be trolling, but if not I love coincidences. ", 
        "I don't get it. Can you explain? ", 
        "4/20 is like a stoners Christmas.  ", 
        "I know but what does that have to do with Nate Diaz? He a stoner?", 
        "I think it's just assumed he is because he's from Okieville, a shithole whitetrash suburb of Stockton, CA. Largely tweakers and permafried population. ", 
        "I always thought he was from Lodi. Either way, if you've ever spent any time in the Stockton area you'd want to smoke or drink something too. ", 
        "There's videos on YouTube of both Nick and Nate advocating marijuana usage.", 
        "oh, well that too, haha", 
        "There is a video of Connor and Nate press conference and someone asked what he would buy with his winnings he said \"buy a whole lot of shit\" and someone yelled \"og kush\" and Nate made a hand gesture of a giant bag.  ", 
        "Nah, they're both bud heads.", 
        "Yea the Diaz bros do enjoy thier Mary Jane.  ", 
        "yes, nick and nate are both marijuana enthusiasts ", 
        "They were born in Marijuanas before they moved to Stockton, CA.", 
        "Is he a Douglas Fir kinda guy?", 
        "I think more like marijuana connoisseurs...", 
        "lol", 
        "4/20 is 45 days after 3/6, the date of the fight.  45 days is a standard time for bad cuts to the face/forehead.  Just a coincidence.", 
        "This is too good to be true.", 
        "huhuhuhuhuhuhuh", 
        "State mandated vacation.", 
        "Blaze it", 
        "Man, that guy Jack Slack linked to in his post fight breakdown was right. \n\nMMA is fixed using numerology!", 
        "Odds that he tests positive for weed?", 
        "Until 2020 what happened, did he hurt himself so bad?! ", 
        "Oh man that's a bad omen", 
        "Someone has a sense of humor...", 
        "Obvi he's gotta let his wounds heal and such. If it was for weed that would be hilarious though..", 
        "And Conner woke up to St Patricks day", 
        "Time to smoke. it. UP.", 
        "That is what you get when you mess with the magic mic", 
        "I'm convinced he only won cause he had small amounts of THC in his system. /s", 
        "Nate defo looked the worst for ware following 196.", 
        "Odds he tests negetive?\n\nAbout 4 in 20", 
        "At which point ms. mary jane will heal him?", 
        "This seem like it is to save face for McGregor , now he can say he may have lost but he put Diaz out of commission.", 
        "He needs some milk.", 
        "shame but needed", 
        "It is prophesied ", 
        "Conor Mcgregor is medically suspended until 3/17. ", 
        "Icing on the cake would be he finished Conor at 4:20 of the 2nd rd. Damn, 8 seconds off!", 
        "AHA", 
        "Theres a 20th month in murca?.....", 
        "Haha that is great \n\nWell some one in this thread is a down voting asshat", 
        "Take it like a man.", 
        "Perfect.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "cheap shot?", 
        "Yeah when Conor threw that pussy punch at the staredown", 
        "Oh I see what you mean. No the suspension is due to the cuts he received during the fight. Standard procedure is 45 day suspension if you get cut, forcing you to take some time off so you can heal up.", 
        "I know, just not letting fans forget that pathetic cheap shot.", 
        "Flare up tough guy", 
        "the salt tho", 
        "A 4/20 joke with a Diaz?  Pretty easy to make up.", 
        "i dont know why but i thought it meant that nate had been tested for marijuana and was suspended until 4/20", 
        "Fuck you and your suspension-nate diaz ", 
        "Wow. He predicted his own loss word by word. Amazing.\n\n", 
        "[Why you stealing comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49fn0a/always_sucks_having_to_eat_your_own_words/d0rf92s)", 
        "Yeah. Exactly!!! Stealing comments. Thats some kenny florian type shit there. \n\n\nJoke\n\nyour head", 
        "He went a little too far this time! I wouldn't have been surprised if Conor had TKO'd Nick, but couldn't really imagine a scenario where he dominated the grappling in the way he described. That Nate often ends up on his back doesn't reflect a lack of positional understanding; he's simply one of the few guys in MMA who can regularly threaten people from guard in a way that most can't translate from a strictly grappling match. I'm guessing Conor knew that though and was just trying to get into Nate's head.", 
        "I was about to ask how you you got so many upvotes by copying another guys comment. Then I read the username... ", 
        "Piss of Florian. ((:", 
        "Why would you want his piss?", 
        "Piss of Florian is a banned substance in 49 countries.", 
        "very reminiscent of rousey ", 
        "God damn, it, have an upvote.", 
        "[well played](http://webmshare.com/m7zAe)", 
        "Your user and that gif had me fuckin rolling", 
        "He did catch Nate with some great overhands and a few uppercuts. I was really surprised how Nate just took those because they looked like solid fucking hits.", 
        "Me too. As a Diaz bro. fan, I was pretty worried after the first round. Conor said it himself after the fight, \"no one before has taken punches like that. He's a big guy and can keep coming after getting hit\". Or something to that effect. ", 
        "I personally didn't think Conor landed many solid hits, Nate did a good job not getting hit solid with much and anytime he did he rolled with the punch taking a lot of force of it. I think the reason Nate got so cut up is cause Conor kept grazing him.", 
        "McGregor's power advantage doesn't carry over to heavier weight classes.", 
        "Yeah that last upper cut when Conor's back is turned to the camera. You just see Nate's bloody head pop up from the punch. He can take some punishment. Pretty sure Conor comes back a better fighter from this.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He's a 155 fighter that drops down to 145 for a size advantage. ", 
        "He didn't \"jump from 145 to 170,\" so it'd be great if people like you could stop repeating that bullshit. \n\nEither you go by the division weight or the fight night weight, you don't get to take a little from each to make it sound more impressive. He fought another lightweight and neither of them had a weight cut. A real 170 pound fighter would have stolen his soul. ", 
        "I have to disagree and I am a huge McGregor fan. He was eating shots that clearly do damage. He wasn't able to negate Diaz's jab and the writing was on the wall pretty early into the fight. Look at him after the first round in his corner, I think even there the panic he said he felt was hitting him. He was being knocked off his rhythm every time he tried to set by that jab. I think his own predictions got him subbed. He was a little too obsessed with thinking he was taking Diaz's head off at some point instead of adjusting when he saw that his shots were not really having the impact he thought they would.", 
        ">Pretty sure Conor comes back a better fighter from this.\n\nHe definitely will. He was already spot on with his self-analysis like 30 minutes after the fight, basically saying he abandoned the body shots and kicks and over-exerted himself thinking he had Diaz hurt, and also admitting that he went into panic mode. He won round 1 imo (even though Nate was taking it slow). He basically surrendered with that takedown attempt, I don't think his ground game is as bad as people think; he was rocked hard and would've been knocked out or TKO'd soon if not submitted.\n\nI think with a smarter approach it's a great fight, especially at 155 and with full camp Diaz. Would be lots of fun.", 
        "Yeah that was an insane uppercut.  And if I remember correctly nate immediately slips/rolls with the follow up punch.  Seemed completely unfazed.", 
        "The Diaz folk come from a long line of concrete heads. ", 
        "weed makes the cement grow ticker ", 
        "I hope they are both good after they retire", 
        "Nate's speech is already heavily affected.  Kinda makes me uneasy listening to him.", 
        "He's been speaking that way since TUF season 3.", 
        "I disagree.  That's what I was comparing him to.", 
        "I guess we'll find out if cannabis really protects brain function.", 
        "I hope so ", 
        "Let's be real that's pretty unlikely. They won't be the only ones though.", 
        "Actually, there are rumblings that consumption of cannabis might help prevent CTE.\n\nThere's a pro wrestler, Rob Van Dam, who is donating his brain and spine to science when he dies so that they can analyze it.", 
        "Even if it really helps these guys have taken a fuck tonne of damage.\n\nI really hope they are OK down the line obviously, but it would be pretty surprising.", 
        "Some boxers, famous for eating shots and not going down, are doing just fine.  ", 
        "That's true. Head trauma seems to be a bit random in how much it effects certain guys.\n\nBut I think everyone who cops damage to the head like that will suffer to some degree, even if it's not public.", 
        "I was rewatching Diaz vs Daley and Diaz vs Thompson and I just thought how is this possible ", 
        "\u017daromskis smashed Diaz pretty well too, they have great recovery.", 
        "Diaz v Cyborg fuuuuuck", 
        "Forgot about that one, it's like a roller coaster watching those fights.", 
        "Fuckers are tough as nails.\n\nI certainly hope they will be ok. I wouldn't wish what head trauma can do anyone.\n\nBut a lot of these guys are going to end up pretty badly.", 
        "yeah diaz vs henderson comes to mind aswell some of the damage they have both taken to this day still baffles me ", 
        "Some say their father was an easter island statue.", 
        "bigfoot silva? ", 
        "so did ronda lol", 
        "The audio mixed with the image of him whiffing an uppercut while Nate laughs at him is so poetic", 
        "Mystic fucking Mac", 
        "He predicts deez tings.", 
        "Mystic fucking Tap", 
        "That's the real River dance", 
        "Hahaha nice", 
        "word for word! Have i been wrong yet?", 
        "\"Words for breakfast... words for lunch... words for brunch...\" ", 
        "*WOOOOOOORRDS in the mornin'! Words in the evenin'! Words at suppertime!*", 
        "Steak words", 
        "Should have been on a strict diet of carbohydrates, steak will make him logy. ", 
        "Full Belly", 
        "Of lies.", 
        "i don't just tap out i pick the round", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This is like Ronda predicting how she would lose. ", 
        "You didn't include the best Conor quote!\n\n\"They all turn into panicked wrestlers.\"\n\n*shoots the worlds shittiest double as soon as he gets rocked*", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He's not saying that, he's pointing out the irony of the situation", 
        "Cause standing half KOd would have been such a better game plan...", 
        "No, respecting his opponents would have been a better game plan.\n\nThe backlash every time he loses is and will be his responsibility.", 
        "I doubt anyone complained about that fake disrespect after getting paid. He is clearly the best entertainer in MMA and knows exactly what he's doing. It works perfectly for the average \"just bleed\" dude who either hates or loves him.", 
        "This is the fight business. Not show business. The kind of fans people like Conor bring to the sport is making MMA more like WWE.", 
        "In a perfect world, yes. If you want this to be on tv, it has to be entertaining. Trash talking existed in boxing for a very long time and it's an olympic sport. Let's recognise for what it is and enjoy the most technical and the most entertaining fight era ever.", 
        "So you think that the UFC wasn't on TV before Connor was in the UFC? \n\nThis sport doesn't need Connor or his fans.\n\nIf you can't appreciate a skilled fighter because he doesn't talk trash like Connor McGregor then why are you even a fan of UFC as a sport? ", 
        "That's not what I said. What I said was that Conor brings ratings whether you love him or hate him. Ratings means money. Money means development of the sport. As MMA becomes more and more mainstream the value of the entertainment becomes bigger. If that's not true, then how come both Ronda and Connor are making stupid money while GOATs like Mighty Mouse and Jose Aldo make peanuts? Do you think Diaz made 500,000 for the last fight because of his talent? Or did Connor's marketability ensured that? It is because with their loud and abnoxious mouthes they make every grandma and grandma's neighbours interested in the sport.\n\nI appreciate that hardcore MMA fans have been watching MMA on a grainy VHS and enjoy technical fights, bet every fight half of the venue is filled with people who boo when the fight gets to the ground and Connor's trash talk brings them back. Jose and RDA can say whatevet they want on Twitter, but I am sure when they get home, they are happy that Connor's ego basically has a post code.\n", 
        "I watch WWE and UFC. I hate fighters like Conor that trash talk their way through a career. ", 
        "Those are the fans that make modern events possible. Do you remember the days when there were only hardcore fans? It didn't look good.", 
        "Without those fans Nate would be short around 500000 right now.", 
        "He is getting a lot of flack for that double and perhaps rightly so, but it was only Nate's elite BJJ skills that stopped Conor turning that guillotine into half guard and top position.", 
        "> shoots the worlds shittiest double as soon as he gets rocked\n\nTo be fair, it's not going to be easy to pull out a good double when he probably didn't even know his name. Especially against Nate Diaz. ", 
        "So he should get knocked out instead?", 
        "... I mean, it's the heat of the moment and I'm not expecting him to be thinking clearly, but realistically I think he'd have a better chance of surviving if he backed up and tried to keep Nate away with kicks until he got his composure back, as opposed to shooting for a takedown on a Brazilian Jiu Jitsu black belt who has most of his wins off submissions.", 
        "It's hard to throw proper kicks while your legs are close to giving out. But I see where you're coming from.", 
        "\"They\", implying he is different than the fighters he's talking about.", 
        "This would have made the clip absolutely perfect ", 
        "100% this should have been in this video! good shout", 
        "lol..yep!", 
        "I mean yea because he was rocked lol. \n\nConor needs to work on his ground game and maybe hit up a new camp but I mean it's because he was rocked as fuck trying to be Anderson silva, that he flopped around on the ground and gave up his back. ", 
        "No excuses. He was dominated. Period.", 
        "It really was a Matt Mitrione tier takedown. ", 
        "He predicts deez tings.", 
        "\"I am not surprised, motherfuckers\"(DIAZ, NATE)", 
        "He predicts Diaz tings.\n\nFTFY", 
        "Ayyyyyyy", 
        "Macarena", 
        "Lmao", 
        "\"Ohh so now you're a wrestler\" ", 
        "That's the best post fight interview.", 
        "* Ronda Rousey: SI Cover, UFC EA 2 Cover, [Predicts own loss](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mIwkGLziszk), stars in movie with Vin Diesel, stopped in second round\n* Conor McGregor: SI Cover, UFC EA 2 Cover, Predicts own loss, stars in move with Vin Diesel, stopped in second round", 
        "Ronda looks like a Star Wars alien in that Jimmy Fallon interview clip", 
        "She's so ugly I truly don't understand how some guys find her sexy. Whoever is reading this that finds her sexy, after you're done down voting my comment can you please reply and tell me exactly what is so sexy about her to you? \n\n", 
        "Both cunted too close to the sun", 
        "Rondalus and Dickarus ", 
        "We have enough here to make these kinds of videos for atleast a month or two. I love it.", 
        "People have been waiting for 3 years to go full anti McGregor", 
        "I'm pretty sure almost no one knew who McGregor was 1.5 years ago.", 
        "[Reddits reaction to McGregor losing](http://i.imgur.com/ri31S3Q.gifv). And i'm loving every second of it!", 
        "A video a day keeps the CNH's at bay", 
        "I'm not even mad", 
        "you're amadiazed", 
        "Nate came into r/mma and changed all your bum lives with all the karma being made ", 
        "Him saying that Nate's jiu jitsu is overrated was just flat out ignorant. McGregor actually believed in his own hype and invincibility, i'm glad he got humbled by a superior martial artist.", 
        "I don't think that losing one exchange on the ground while being rocked makes him worst at jiu jitsu. I think Nate's better at it, I'm just saying that this fight didn't prove that.  ", 
        "I wouldn't say he's superior, from what I saw McGregor was dominating the fight until he got hit with the one two in the second, then from there he was to wobbly and tired to defend himself properly. I'd say Diaz mainly won due to his durable chin and Conor's poor gameplan", 
        "Not sure superior is quite correct, as the size difference in the cage was very clear.   Seriously, there are weight classes for a reason, and it's not to keep the heavyweights from being embarrassed.\n\nMcGregor has had tremendous advantages from his ability to cut to 145, and then hydrate with very little stamina or power loss back to the 160-170 range.\n\nI do think that Diaz is a fantastic fighter, and martial artist.  \n\nAnd, yes, saying that he has overrated BJJ was foolish.  \n\nThe thing about the Diaz brothers is, you are not going to get into their heads, and make them doubt themselves.\n\nI hope that it is a humbling experience, and that McGregor does train his ground game to a far greater degree.", 
        "You say that but Nate wasn't cutting at all really. ", 
        "The weight classes are really more to prevent guys that are 170 from fighting 145 pound guys. But hey, if they can dehydrate better than those guys, it's fair, right?", 
        "Rules are rules, so I have no real issue with it.\n\nI do think it makes it almost impossible (almost) for those who cannot cut weight to make it to the upper levels of the divisions, but it applies to everyone, and is therefore fair.", 
        "Connor chose this fight at an agreed weight. He had the final say on the dos anjos replacement. He knew Nate would be bigger and fighting closer to his walking around weight. Nothing about weight in this fight was remotely unfair.", 
        "He got jewpacabra'd. ", 
        "I think he was just selling the fight. I could be wrong, but that is just my impression. He knows how to do it. He doesn't have to bark all the time.\n\nI could be just as stoic and monotone as he was and tell you that Mayweather is overrated and I will expose him and make him eat the canvass. I don't believe I can, I know I can't, but if you're on the fence about paying to see it, I'll convince you to.", 
        "Honestly man, Conor isn't stupid. He knows Nate has a far superior ground game.. he was just trying to be arrogant and hype the fight. ", 
        "He found out the hard way..", 
        "doubt he believed it, but I'd do it too to hype a fight and walk home with 1 mill. People don't realise he's a marketer. That's the way to be if you want to make money and retire properly in the fight business. No one wants to watch people that don't put themselves out there. By saying shit like this Conor creates more tension and anticipation as people realise that if he loses he's going to look like an idiot. I honestly doubt he truly believes the stuff he says. ", 
        "This sub is not even close to being mature enough to understand anything you just said.", 
        "> doubt he believed it\n\n\"You don't believe it.  They believe it.  But you don't.\"\n\n...", 
        "If you really want to see just how far up his own ass he was, go watch that backstage interview after the fight.  He was legitimately shocked when he couldn't knock Diaz out with his left hand.  This guy actually thought he could just cruise on up a weight class and KNOCK OUT a Diaz brother of all people...as if it were just that easy.  ", 
        "Link??", 
        "It was from a link I found in r/mma.  It was that walk and talk with megan olivi to the post fight press conference.  ", 
        "Yeah this stood out for me. Naive and indicative of not being grounded by members of his team. Needs more people around him questioning him and not letting him get away with reckless arrogance.\n\nStill it is hard not to slip into being a yes man when aboard the gravy train.", 
        "Well he does have a pretty insane KO ratio. It isn't unreasonable that your belief in your own power would be a little inflated by that point in your career.\n\nThe Diaz brothers are the scary type of fighters for me, same with guys like Lawler. Scary in the sense that in the next years they could develop some serious mental illnesses from the punishment their ego gets them into. It is almost as if they are so ignorant to the damage they take and they just keep pouring it on. Kill or be killed as they say.\n\nI think it is here that McGregors belief in his own hype had got a little bigger than reality. I think he needs to remember that this is a sport where lbs make huge differences, just a couple each way can do the trick.", 
        "Uhhh he said it himself multiple times that he underestimated how much damage a bigger man can take, and acknowledged that he spent his energy on power shots early, and that his wheel kicks didn't do shit. \n\nHe was pretty fucking humble and clearly recognized the faults in his own game. And he landed good shots on Diaz, just wasn't chin music and Diaz is a freak.", 
        "People are giving McGregor shit, but he was winning the fight easily until the last 1-2 minutes. I mean going from fighting someone that's 5'7\" to fighting someone that's 6'0\" with 76\" reach in a couple months... Did pretty good considering.", 
        "Not really.", 
        "I don't care that he was humble in defeat tbh after being beaten like that after all that talk what other way was there to take it?\n\nBUT... To his credit, I think he knew exactly why he lost, and even though I don't like Conor's personality, I do respect his skill and from what I hear when he's not dressing like an Irish dandy driving a rolls Royce he really is training hard... So I think he can eventually, hold belts in two weight classes ", 
        "The fact that he talked such insanity and then was humble after indicates that he's just a good shit talker.", 
        "Indicates that he can sell fights which has made him a multi millionaire and has promoted the UFC greatly. ", 
        "I don't think that word, humble, means what you think it means.", 
        "Did you watch his post fight interviews? He was genuinely humble in defeat and honest with himself.", 
        "I did, and while he stated \"I'm humble\" quite a few times, he was a bit light on the \"Nate did a great job\" (while he said it once, or maybe twice), and very high on the \"I'll take it on the chin\", \"I'll take it like a champion\"-buzzwordbingoing. ", 
        "Yeah you are right, I was waiting for him to give more props to Nate too. He's ultra competitive though so I'm not surprised he had trouble praising the guy who just destroyed his little legacy. I'd give him 8/10 Humble.", 
        "Not 5/7? I'm dissapoint son.", 
        "Can bigger people take more damage? How?\n\nI just thought the smaller guy had less power. Genuine question. I'm not very knowledgeable on this.", 
        "Stop, don't oppose the new trendy circlejerk!\n\nIn seriousness though, what do people want Conor to say? He was very humble. I was rooting for Nate but I still feel bad for Conor and I hope he'll keep having success in the cage.", 
        "Conner is always so humble. ", 
        "I never said that and I disliked his attitude a lot before the fight. I just meant that I don't know what he could say to prevent the haters to hate. He was humble ande realistic after the fight and people still complain.", 
        "He displayed the same cocky arrogance as Rhonda. Everybody said he was eventually gonna lose, and when he did he was gonna catch a ton of shit. Lo and behold. If he had been more humble and kept his head on planet Earth, people would be more forgiving.", 
        "Fair enough.", 
        "I'll take this circle jerk over the \"he's just like Muhammed Ali\" or \"he has more power than the UFC and will start his own promotion\" circle jerk.", 
        "How about no circle jerk?", 
        "I mean, I want world peace too but it ain't gonna happen.", 
        "You can't do much about world peace, but you can easily have a measured opinion and avoid thinking everything in black or white if you try.", 
        "That's nice. \n\nIf that's what you think you will get from /r/mma then you haven't been here long.", 
        "Sorry, next time I will try to remind myself to think in binary to fit in better.", 
        "I'm curious as to how immediately letting people know you went up two weight classes and that you have tons of money and then shit talking RDA was humble. Could you explain it more to me?", 
        "People are saying 'humble' when I think they mean 'accepting of the loss'", 
        "Yeah you're not humble if every second sentence is you saying that you're humble. ", 
        "Bull shit! My humility is my BEST quality and EVERYONE KNOWS IT!", 
        "POUND 4 POUND HUMBLEST.  No one humbles like me.  I will wash your feet until all the skin is gone and your foot is a stub.  I bow before EVERYONE!  HUM-BLE!   HUM-BLE!  *RAISES FIST OF HUMILITY*", 
        "Granted, conor has serious power behind his punches but has he ever seen Nick or Nate fight? Chins of steel! ", 
        "He has power, but precision beats power. ", 
        "I really feel that the Diaz brothers just don't understand the concept of pain. ", 
        "They get it, they just don't care", 
        "Pain has nothing to do with consciousness.", 
        "In all seriousness, both Aldo and Chad came out of their second fight looking like they were almost fucking invincible, the amount of punishment they took from each other was incredible.\n\nThen Conor came by and knocked them both out in like 10 minutes total.\n\nHe definitely bought his own hype, but his power looked like it was something **really** special.", 
        "Conner is good, but he really got lucky with Aldo.", 
        "Its not luck when you try to hit someone and you land. I don't understand comments like this. I agree that Aldo would likely beat him in a fight where he doesn't get knocked out so quickly, but don't chalk something intentional up to luck.", 
        "If you don't believe that luck plays a role in the outcome of a match, I have a bridge that I'd like to sell you. You are trying to make it sound like I claimed that Conner was not trying to defeat Aldo and it just happened randomly; that's not what I mean by saying that Conner was lucky, and I'm pretty sure you know it.", 
        "nate went 3 rounds with rory macdonald. conor seriously thought he hit harder than rory?", 
        "He probably thought he did.", 
        "Maybe he does, only Diaz could really say.", 
        "Diaz:\n\nYeah Coner hits hard, but its nothing I havnt been hit with already", 
        "Diaz: He hits hard for a little guy. ", 
        "I think Diaz actually rolled with the hits really well against Conor. ", 
        "That was a BJJ clinic.  The transitions were practiced and effective.  Even as much as Nate got knocked around round one, then end looked like practice for him.", 
        "Wtf are you talking about. The fight was on the ground twice for like 15 seconds and Conor swept Nate and when he lost he was rocked... how is that a clinic? Of course Nate is boss at bjj, but it was not a clinic whatsoever.", 
        "The last 15 seconds.  Not the whole fight.  Just those last transitions, they were epic, practiced, and obviously effective.", 
        "So Nate showed some good BJJ. Not a clinic at all...If you are paying for a clinic that lasts 15 seconds, then I've got a few clinics I can sell you if you've got a minute.", 
        "He aslo thought Artemij Sitenkov's jiu jitsu was overrated when they picked him as an easy target many years ago. People just never learn from their mistakes", 
        "watching this in slow mo, Conor gave up he literally rolled over and gave him the choke and even rolled further so he could sink it deeper", 
        "He got blasted in the face 3 or 4 times on the ground before that. If he didn't roll over it'd be lights out.", 
        "Yeah bc that's the only option when you're mounted, rollover a give up your neck ", 
        "Ay...i dont give a fuck!", 
        "Just imagine he tried to keep standing. I don't know, I think Nate would mash him into a meal in 3rd round, which would be completely embarrassing and would definitely destroy all the hype. \n\nI think he went down intentionally, fully aware he was about to lose, and lose in a not dignified way. A graceful exit so to say, perhaps instinctively he made the best decision for himself under the circumstances. He was clearly shattered with that left straight of Nate's, and his confidence evaporated, and gassing out was on top of those other predicaments.", 
        "I think thats exactly why he did that, it was either lose to strikes or lose to tap, losing to tap gives you every opportunity to coming back sooner than getting KTFO.", 
        "Conor was rocked hard at least twice within a minute and he was exhausted.  Nate also landed a nice knee where you could hear Conor get the wind knocked out of him.  Conor had success on the ground at the end of the first so his instinct was probably to go to the ground to recover and that backfired.", 
        "Conor blew his load in the first dominating Nate, came out in the second with nothing left and got rocked. I'd bet he didn't even know what he was doing when he shot in for the takedown. ", 
        "completely whiffing multiple times tends to do that. Also landing your best shots and having them just bounce off can be demoralizing. ", 
        "\"When a human panics, his first instinct is to grab.\" -- Conor McGregor", 
        "\"When a human panics, his first instinct is to grab.\" -- Kenny Florian\n\n", 
        "Mystic Mac was right again!", 
        "He was done by the time he went to the mat. He can say all he wants about his ground game but this is a Gracie disciple. I'd hope he knew that. ", 
        "Not only that, but he was both rocked and gassed. He wasn't going to be able to compete even if his jiujitsu was at a close level to Nate's.", 
        "He knew that. I got the impression that he shot for the double only because he knew he was finished if he stayed standing; it was a last-ditch, last-resort move out of pure desperation and panic.", 
        "\"Please don't break my chin, I wanna fight at 200\"", 
        "So you are saying he became a panic wrestler?", 
        "Are you.. surprised?", 
        "lol yep", 
        "He did roll over to get choked but Diaz smacked his chin into place. He literally punched Conor in the face so that his head would move out of the choke's way.", 
        "I loved that so much", 
        "We all did!", 
        "your circlejerk is so cringeworthy it defies belief.", 
        "STOCKTIN SLEHP", 
        "Midgets", 
        "I fucking giggled like a little schoolgirl when I saw him do that", 
        "Don't ever underestimate a legitimate Jiu-Jitsu Black Belt.", 
        "he had kron gracie in his corner. that should say enough about his grapling", 
        "absolutely. Diaz beat Ryan Hall at purple belt, when Hall was already beating world class black belts. Not only did he beat him, he dominated and tapped him. If he stayed in BJJ he would be even better than he is now", 
        "Idk how much of it is him actually believing his own hype, or if he was actually insecure and lacked self-belief and would over compensate with saying shit even he didn't believe. Probably a mix of both.", 
        "I think part of this is when you reach this level you have to be a larger-than-life type figure, and basically be playing a \"character.\" You start to act a different way, much like rock stars back in the day had to act larger than life just to cope with the fame, attention, nerves, etc. ", 
        "I forget who said it, I think it was a boxer but a lot of people might have said it...\n\nIf you don't think you're the greatest fighter in the ring... You probably shouldn't be in the ring.", 
        "GSP was terrified before every fight.", 
        "Meh. Even Tyson had self-doubts before every fight. It's how you handle the fear and lack of confidence that is important. I think that attitude is actually quite unhealthy. I can't even tell you how many things I haven't done, such astalking to girls or pursuing some sort of path, because I believed in what you are saying, and would think \"Well if I'm not totally confident then I will fail anyway, why even try?\" Super unhealthy way to think man, don't believe that shit.\n\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S9MtJ164XJI", 
        "Honestly I think part of it could be him intentionally talking himself into a corner where he has to win impressively just to live up to his own hype", 
        "I've wondered about that too. Like it isn't just to psyche the other guy out, but to psyche himself up.", 
        "I mean if I imagine that I'm walking into the cage having said all that shit...at 6'5\" 210 lbs there's probably a couple flyweights in the UFC that I could fuck up just on adrenaline alone", 
        "No ... no, there isn't.", 
        "Yeah but you wouldn't be a flyweight, you'd be facing dudes the same size as you.", 
        "You should head down to a gym and roll with some smaller dudes.\n\nIt'll be a truly eye-opening experience for you.  No disrespect intended, just a suggestion to help you appreciate what these guys do.", 
        "Oh I have, and like you said it was eye-opening. I've trained in boxing as well and sparred with several guys who trained in other disciplines, mostly TKD, nobody near UFC level but still...That said I was just being facetious", 
        "And surely a good chunk of selling the fight.", 
        "True, I think that would tie into \"shit he didn't believe\" but w.e.", 
        "Shhh don't tell Reddit, other wise they can't keep the circle jerk up.\n\nSeriously though I don't think Connor has anything to to be ashamed of. He fought 2 weight classes up, and put on a hell of a show. This wasn't Ronda vs Holmes were it was on sided and Ronda was schooled.\nConnor landed good shots, did damage, and even had a nice reverse on the ground that first round. Props to both of them.", 
        "Well you'll never get your armchair psychiatrist degree now. Get back in line!", 
        "haha well I di get a few heated PMs from that comment, guess some people just toss the comments via pm so they don't get down-voted. ", 
        "Well that's sad. If I ever stab you, I promise to do it from the front!", 
        "I guess ten days wasn't enough time to watch Nate submit fools left and right.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/5gMB9Xd.gif", 
        "Damn. I did not laugh that hard for a long time. Obligatory upvote.", 
        "MMA GIFs are just the best.", 
        "reach man, keep reaching man.", 
        "Should on /r/quityourbullshit", 
        "That's awesome. I teared up laughing.", 
        "Three Stooges-esque with his.... fuck it", 
        "the internet is amazing", 
        "50 years of developing the internet led to this very moment.", 
        "Humble pie", 
        "The plate falling off is a nice touch", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/ICwgtIP.gif", 
        "Save", 
        "Oh god, are there more of these?", 
        "Oh my god, hahaha. ", 
        "I love how Nate punched Conor's head into position to sink in the final choke.\n\nReal gangsta shit.", 
        "It was so brutal. None of that saw arm to slip it under or squeezing the chin. Just popped his head up and wrapped up that throat. I've never seen a cleaner RNC.", 
        "Ya, I loved that.  One perfect punch, and he was right there.  Perfect.", 
        "I predict Diaz tings.", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49fn0a/always_sucks_having_to_eat_your_own_words/d0rjb94\n\n\nComment thief", 
        "apparently you don't see the time posted next to the points.", 
        "At the time of, your post was roughly one hour later than the one I linked too.\n\nI like how you waited for the timer to turn to \"1 day\" before replying so the hour wouldn't show up anymore.", 
        "Perfect ", 
        "Nate Diaz feels like the physical embodiment of one of those thug life meme's right now.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "those memes were based on the Diaz bros", 
        "Wow. He predicted his own loss word by word. \nAmazing.", 
        "You copied the top comment, word for word. Amazing.", 
        "((: Ya Kenny Florian definitely came up with it... I posted first but I guess great minds think alike...", 
        "I'm pretty sure /u/KennethFlorian is the copycat here. ", 
        "This post 00:11:52 UTC the other 00:12:09 UTC. Sometimes people just think the same thing.", 
        "Nah, I'm pretty sure /u/KennethFlorian did that on purpose. ", 
        "Mystic fucking Mac", 
        "**[- KennethFlorian](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49fn0a/always_sucks_having_to_eat_your_own_words/d0rf9gc)** ", 
        "Kenthaniel, my man!", 
        "Kind of like Ronda did with her loss against Holm.", 
        "Source? I must have missed this.", 
        "https://youtu.be/1hmfzFh56Vo", 
        "And they both crossed the line and threw cheap shots at the pre-fight staredowns aswell. Conor truly did have his Ronda moment.", 
        "I don't see why people keep giving him crap for that. Nate had his fist right up in his face, like a millimeter away from touching him, clearly provocative, and Conor just swatted it away. It was to be expected and wasn't a big deal in the slightest.", 
        "Nate even said that he would have done it if he were Conor, I thought that was really interesting and a little funny, tbh.", 
        "Seriously. But no, gotta inflate it and make it a big deal for drama.", 
        "you don't punch a fighter's hand right before your fight", 
        "well, his Ronda moment without going into hiding like a little bitch afterwards. ", 
        "Hahaha wow...the Ronda hate has reached it's peak around here it seems.", 
        "But she did just that?", 
        "Lol you're just proving my point homie", 
        "She also had a long period of unprecedented dominance, while McGregor hasn't even defended his belt yet...", 
        "Conor can get pregnant now, like Rounda.", 
        "Dey don't birth like he births.", 
        "looked at artem and said to himself, I'm going to have his babies.", 
        "or looked at Ido and wanted that dork to touch his butt more. ", 
        "Artem, keep the birth flowy!", 
        "He and Arty can have their own rookery of penguin pups", 
        "Conor has a form of precognition were he see's the outcomes but not always the victory\n", 
        "Maud'dib!", 
        "Holy shit, there's a reference I didn't think I'd see here", 
        "Wheel kicks within wheel kicks", 
        "Ido is the butt-toucher", 
        "God damn this video gave me a boner", 
        "When he said Diaz knew nothing about positional dominance, I burst out laughing.  He was truly talking out of his league there.", 
        "Yeah what the fuck? And the way he says it. It's like his voice and the words chosen sound all super epic and then you realize *wait, he has no fucking idea what he's talking about*. And his fans eat it up like they just stop thinking when they hear his voice say words.", 
        "Haha yes", 
        "Nate Diaz channeling the future through Conor's mouth. That's what next NEXT level weed smoking let's you do.", 
        "The look on [Conor's face](http://i.imgur.com/HVIpJU7.png) right before the punches started landing on the ground.", 
        "Actually made me feel bad about him. The look of helplessness in his eyes is just like a childs. Makes me want to go and comfort him. Shhhh it's going to be alright soon. Don't be afraid. ", 
        "Well Done OP, Well Done.", 
        "New favorite video ever", 
        "I was PRAYING Nate would invite him to one of his seminars to help him defend the choke.", 
        "troubled by Conors likely response to stuff like this as \"hate\"\n\nNo, its a honest response people have when you act like a dickhead and then you get your ass beat by a guy you were rubbing in his face how underpaid he is", 
        "Too bad Nate got $500,000 with no win bonus and Conor got 1 Mil", 
        "Might want to re-read what you you responded to...", 
        "I'm just saying that's kinda complete bullshit for Nate lol", 
        "Troubled by his \"likely response\", Conor obviously didn't react to defeat in the way you wanted but you still twist it so you can vent your negativity ", 
        "hes already mentioned 'online hate', which I think is an easy way to internalise peoples reaction to how you behaved. Sure there are haters out there, but there a ton of people that just got turned off by his behaviour towards Nate. He punched him before the fight ffs. I like Conor hes a great fighter, just acts like a dick sometimes.", 
        "sometimes?", 
        "i predict deez things", 
        "Diaz tings*", 
        "The gall of this blue belt saying Nate's Jiu Jitsu sucks.", 
        "He is brown belt.", 
        "MMA brown belt. ", 
        "That means fuck all under Kavanaugh. When Paddy O Holohan is your other coach your JJ is shit.", 
        "Looked like white belt.", 
        "And who are you?", 
        "yo momma", 
        "Hi mom.", 
        "Clean your room! Get your laundry together!", 
        "He was nearly unconscious.", 
        "Lots of black belts look like white belts going against the best of the best.\n\nDoesn't make them any less solid, just the top guys are that good. ", 
        "Nah, he was giving up the moment he shot that \"desperation-double\". He knew it was over, he just needed an out that didn't involve a KO. I'm sure he could have done at least somewhat better than he did on the ground if he wasn't already half destroyed.", 
        "Maybe just not talk so much shit?", 
        "He just needs to pick his shit talking better. I can't really deal with personal stuff, such as taking the piss out of someone for being dumb or teaching kids in his spare time.. That's just mean bullying shit. \n\nBad mouth their fighting, or stuff they've done in the ring all you want. That's where the smack talk should end if you want me not to laugh my arse off when you get destroyed by the guy you were insulting. \n\nNate, as far as I remember, didn't get personal. He kept quiet, or insulted Conors fighting (midgets) and team (nobodies). \n\nObviously shit talking sells PPV's, but I think you can sell PPV's without getting so personal. ", 
        "That's how you get the $ and make it entertaining for us all. It's 3 days later and I'm still laughing. Be grateful.", 
        "Brilliant. Thank you sooo much for this. Am I a \"Conor hater\"? You bet your ass I am. lol", 
        "Heh, couldn't hit the mark more if it were rehearsed.", 
        "This shit ain't ever getting old! ", 
        "Good video,  but Nate showing him how he counts to five is my favorite so far. This is the line that Conor crosses while trash talking that goes to far, imo. However,  now he knows that nate can count to 5.", 
        "Pound him out or choke?\n\n'Why not both?' - Nate", 
        "Conor please stop talking like \"I feel\" like some sort of sensei master, its super obnoxious ", 
        "Conor talks like he's been seeing a Sports Psychologist or one of those Self-belief people. They always encourage people to say (and we've seen Weidman do this too): \"I **will** do this, I **will** do that\" and \"I **feel**\" is more powerful to the mind than \"I **think**\"\n\nOR he could just be avoiding saying \"think\" because of that awful Irish accent, \"tink\".\n\nOR I could just be talking out of my little, white bottom.", 
        "This was the most obnoxious part about it. He speaks with dramatic hesitation like there's some monastic, deep thought involved. And then you realize he has no fucking comprehension of who and what he's actually talking about. Most of his fans just realized this weekend that they bought into the scam. *Hoooooooey!*", 
        "There is literally a mountain of material that is now coming back to haunt Conor. I say keep it coming. ", 
        "Dude's disrespectful", 
        "Come on guys, Conor is going to end up watching this and start crying.", 
        "Might trigger Justin Bieber to send a shitty tweet again", 
        "context?", 
        "[This](https://www.instagram.com/p/BCmgVtwgvit/?taken-by=justinbieber)", 
        "He predicted his own defeat word for word. ", 
        "Op you da real mvp. ", 
        "between this and the Nogueira Brother's \"happy meal black belts\"... you just know you are eventually in it for a treat when somebody talks so much shit", 
        "Mystic Mac strikes again..?", 
        "I was in a busy bar watching this fight and there was myself and one other who supported Diaz. The bar went quiet pretty quickly once Mcgregor got choked out. ", 
        "The way he punches his face right into place for the choke is so satisfying", 
        "I cannot *tell you* how much joy I feel to see this blowhard asshole lose so spectacularly.", 
        "Why do you hate a man that you do not know? Can you not be happy and take lessons from others or do you just like to be jealous and angry that he has more money, more success and a better life than you?\n\nLosing is a part of the sport and I feel for everyone who loses, he is a man selling a fake image to make himself some money in the sport he loves and you lap it up and then say you hate him for it?", 
        "Leave Brittney alone -   \n/u/reddevilnumber1", 
        "Don't be a hypocrite. Everybody hates somebody, even you. It doesn't matter if it's MMA, basketball, soccer, boxing, tennis, baseball, hockey, or hand-egg. Don't come here in this Conor bashing thread in your high horse.", 
        "It is hard to hate people I have not met, especially in a sport for christ sake. It is nothing to do with me being on my \"high horse\" I just think it is a little weird people are so happy that an entertainer and sportsman lost as though he did them some personal harm. If you do not like him, why the fuck do you people watch his shit in the first place.", 
        "It's definitely not hard to hate Manchester United though.....What a bunch of cunts!", 
        "I hate Real Madrid because they're cunts. I have no reason to hate them, I'm not a Barcelona or Atletico fan. I just do. Don't pretend you have no irrational hate for anybody because that post belongs in r/quityourbullshit", 
        "If you hate an entire team that you've never met before for no reason at all then you're the cunt pal. ", 
        "Yep I'm a cunt and you're a hypocrite. Happy?", 
        "Happy? HAPPY? I've never been happy. I fail to see my hypocrisy though, considering that was my first comment in the thread. Also not saying that I don't think people are cunts (myself included sometimes), I just prefer to have some basis for calling them that, not just arbitrarily deciding that an entire football team are cunts based on zero interaction with them or any reasoning. ", 
        "> I just prefer to have some basis for calling them that, not just arbitrarily deciding that an entire football team are cunts based on zero interaction with them or any reasoning.\n\nThat's the whole point I'm trying to make. Irrational hate especially in sports fandom. And I'm not afraid to admit I'm guilty of it. I'm just telling you how I feel, there's no point sugar-coating it to a random internet stranger. I hate them and I admit it.\n\nI thought you were the other guy btw but nvm.", 
        "I don't always downvote... But when I do... It's on comments like this.", 
        "This was beautiful ", 
        "lmfao ", 
        "So humble in his predictions, Joe.", 
        "LOL at Conor's attempt at a double leg. \n\nThis video is savagery.", 
        "Seriously, how do the hard core McG fan feel 2 days after. Lol... This, along with the quick ones Nate threw McG's way in the post-presser, is so humiliating.", 
        "Surprised one of these hasn't surfaced yet, enjoy!", 
        "It's been taken down, can you post it again? Or a mirror?", 
        "https://streamable.com/lm0o", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm sure Conor is so depressed that a bunch of douchebags on Reddit and Facebook are making fun of him.", 
        "Fucken' hell.. that's just a savagely brutal video.", 
        "Still Mystic, just predicted the wrong fighter. Love seeing him eat his words accurately though.", 
        "Lying on his own arms? How the fuck has this guy gotten to where he is?! NO jits.", 
        "He got a jolt of pompousness with the utter accident of the Aldo fight. Got what was coming I think", 
        "If you think Conor knocking out Aldo was an accident, then you are a fool.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You'll never believe that Conor meant to drop Aldo that fast?  He got lucky?\n\nYou're making me cringe.  I don't want to believe that this sub is full of idiots like you who know nothing about fighting, but you're making that difficult for me.  \n\nAldo rushed in with a left hook, and Conor landed a well-timed, well-placed left hand.  \n\nWhere's the luck?", 
        "JDS dropped Cain inside of a minute, how'd the next two fights go? What about GSP vs Matt Serra, Anderson Silva vs Ryo Conan? Unexpectedly fortuitous situations happen for people all the time, and at various points throughout a fight. Obviously wasn't all luck as I'm sure Connor has spent some time on his counter left hook. That said, given the first one is out of the way, I'd pick Aldo to win the next two, and based on the match up , I'd pick Frankie Edgar to go 2 for 2 against him. \n\nEdit: Spelling and Grammar.", 
        "Your Aldo dickriding and anti Conor dickriding is even stronger bruh.\n\nConor serenaded Aldo with some chin music that night, maybe aldo wins 9/10 but not that night. Maybe a little lucky but not an accident he made his own luck.", 
        "JDS dropped Cain inside of a minute, how'd the next two fights go? What about GSP vs Matt Serra, Anderson Silva vs Ryo Conan? Unexpectedly fortuitous situations happen for people all the time, and at various points throughout a fight. Obviously wasn't all luck as I'm sure Connor has spent some time on his counter left hook. That said, given the first one is out of the way, I'd pick Aldo to win the next two, and based on the match up , I'd pick Frankie Edgar to go 2 for 2 against him.", 
        "This is the example I always fucking use when people think getting caught is automatically assumed you were the inferior opponent.", 
        "It is interesting to think how connor would fight if he has to conserve his energy because he cant knock out anyone outside of feather weight. He showed his gas tank is not championship level, and when fights go on they go to the ground, which his ground game is also not championship level. I agree with Nate, he was just pushed and fed wins. I have nothing against connor, love him and always enjoy watching him, still think he is one of the greatest. One of my favorite things Nate has said since his victory is 'lets see connor after 25 fights'(after saying he just finished his 25th fight).", 
        ">he cant knock out anyone outside of feather weight.\n\nNate has a particularly good chin. Conor put in some BIG shots in the first round. ", 
        "I don't think it's fair to say he can't ko anyone outside of 145, because the diaz bros chins are on another level. Also any fighter that throws as many power shots conor threw would get gassed, I think we have to see him fight 4 or 5 rounds when he actually paces himself to truly say if he has top level cardio. \n\nI disagree that conor was fed wins, he fought who he needed to fight to get to the title, featherweight just isn't nearly as deep as lightweight. Diaz also had multiple chances and had a decent push from the ufc. He fought henderson for the belt after only 3 wins after coming back down from welterweight, then went 1-1 before getting a #1 contender fight against rda", 
        "> Also any fighter that throws as many power shots conor threw would get gassed\n\nNo, Not RDA to name one, Robbie Lawler too.... Connors stamina is actually quite bad.", 
        "Watch their fights, they pace themselves. I knew someone was going to bring up Robbie too, but he 100% paces himself and doesn't fight like Conor did the first 2 rounds ", 
        "Nate fought Henderson after beating Gomi, Cowboy and Jim Miller.  All arguably near the top of the division at the time.  He wasn't exactly pushed for the title shot but IIRC much like now they didn't have anyone else healthy or who hadn't just lost recently.", 
        "I agree with most of this, but Robbie throws bombs for 5 rounds", 
        "Robbie conserves somewhat for the first four and then finds another level in the fifth.", 
        "True, he does conserve relative to the 5th", 
        "Tbh he's probably not conserving, he just goes berserk in the fifth.", 
        "Robbie throws heavy but doesn't move around as much as McGregor. Robbie is fair economic with his footwork. Nor does Robbie load up quite as often as McGregor did. McGregor was darting left and right, moving his head and spinning. McGregor did not pace himself, which is especially bad against a Diaz, and got caught with rhythm breaking punches.", 
        "All good points, and likely relevant factors. I was just countering with the idea that some guys do throw bombs and not gas out. But, they do have to conserve in other areas, as you pointed out.", 
        "Robbie's a savage", 
        ">His gas tank\n\n[Didn't you hear?](https://youtu.be/1m2Qepxdt4Q?t=15m06s) Conor can go all day. Look at him, he's an animal.\n\nHis gas tank wasn't even enough to make 3rd round in a non-title fight, apparently.  ", 
        "WOW", 
        "Brutal ", 
        "A few more http://i.imgur.com/SyxbtiO.jpg", 
        "How will the entire MMA world justify continuing to hang off of Connor's nuts if he loses the belt right away to Edgar/Aldo? \n\nThis time it's all about weight/size even though both Connor & Diaz belong at 155. What will it be next?", 
        "Mystic Mac", 
        "Mystic Hack, you mean.", 
        "Modern day Oracle of Delphi.", 
        "Schadenfreude is a dish best served cold.", 
        "Let's top page this fucking vid. ", 
        "That's what happens when you have blazed through your last opponent like a piece of tissue paper. You start believing in your own hype and put pressure on yourself for that 1st round ko.\n\nIt is super impressive in itself what Conor and ronda have done, but it just speeds up their path to oblivion if their ego is too big to adjust on the fly. It almost feels like if they don't finish in one then they have 'lost'. I personally feel ronda and Conor both have the skillsets to beat holly and Nate had they played it more smartly.", 
        "Love how it was so awesome for Conor to be so disrespectful and talk shit about his opponents but now its soooo horrible and low to talk shit on Conor after he loses..fuck off. He deserves all the backlash he recieves ten fold.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Salty as fuck!", 
        "You guys need to stop nuthugging your new F\u00fchrer. ", 
        "Hoooly fuck.  I hadn't seen this interview.  He really was delusional.  ", 
        "Should be on /r/quityourbullshit", 
        "Also, who bounced who's head off the canvas.", 
        "So much for \"the Conor belt, it's all about mixed martial arts\" - it looks like it's about fighting midgets for sometime yet Conor\n\n\n\n ", 
        "This is just fucking perfect. ", 
        "Haha get fucked McGregor you piece of shit", 
        "It speaks volumes about the state of this subreddit when comments like this get so many upvotes. Well, I guess I shouldn't expect anything less from /r/mma. And it's not like I wasn't happy about Diaz's win, it's just that comments like this are really low quality and extremely cringy. ", 
        "Well considering most of mcgregors shit talking was saying how poor nate diaz is, and punching him before the fight, yeah he's a piece of shit and needed to get fucked. \n\nConor was poor like diaz was, growing up struggling, you would expect him to know better than to talk that kind of shit. He's a Classless asshole. ", 
        "Oh you mean like every time Conor opens his shitty mouth?", 
        "Jesus... the hostility here is just so childish. How can you care so much?", 
        "Why do you?", 
        "People take this far too seriously ", 
        "haha i dont understand why comments like that dont get voted down to be honest.", 
        "Because it's salty", 
        "As oppose to this post?", 
        "I'm pretty sure someone is misunderstanding my post.", 
        "Because McGregor has been a smug and arrogant piece of shit.", 
        "Some people enjoy the game a lot. No harm in that.", 
        "\"I hate how McGregor calls people names, he's a piece of shit\"\n\nBeautiful.", 
        "He also punched nate before the fight  ", 
        "\u201cWe\u2019re passionate fans. We\u2019ve gotta hammer something\u201d", 
        "I am not watching this fight sober, you think I wanna remember it?", 
        "Jesus Christ you get invested.", 
        "Didn't need the shitty music. ", 
        "Jeez! I think a meditation retreat would be very good for Conor", 
        "This is awesome. wow", 
        "Man, whenever I see somebody wipe their big leaking gash on that mat I can't help but feel like they're about to catch Staph. There's so much bacteria down there from all that spit, blood, sweat, all kinds of fungus...they really need to do something about this.\n\nAnyway, Nate is a beast. Great video. The Notorious Bigmouth ate his own words.", 
        "Having dealt with a near fatal case of staph infection ,that's literally all i'm thinking about when i'm watching fights like this .", 
        "All that shit talk!  I love it ;)", 
        "My favorite part is the reacharound punch on the chin to open him up for the choke.  You can be good at jiu jitsu, you can be good at striking, but that's pure MMA right there.\n", 
        "Love the slaps on the ground. I somehow missed that the first 2 times i saw the fight. ", 
        "Conor went from eating salad, to steak dinners, to his just desserts :). ", 
        "lol it got taken down due to copyright owner complaint, so much for fair use\n\nHere's a repost:\n\nhttps://streamable.com/lm0o", 
        "Thanks!", 
        "I didn't call the fight...but I thought that a big win like Aldo's would fill his head with invincibility, like Brandon Vera did.  \nhttps://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/48y4dg/dana_white_tough_to_deny_conor_mcgregor_if_he/d0ni5s0", 
        "Why didn't Nate go for the KO/TKO instead of the sub? \n\nHe was ground and pounding him already with a few more shots wouldn't he have got the W?", 
        "\"I'd have more KOs/TKOs, but when people get hit by me, they turn into wrestlers.\"", 
        "100%", 
        "Conor turned over and basically begged Diaz to choke him", 
        "Basically?  That was an incredibly bad screw up by McPrick.   ", 
        "Not if you're in the camp that he did it purposely, why lose to strikes when you can lose to tap. Take less damage overall and come back faster.", 
        "That actually would make sense.  He was gassed badly and getting his face beat in.  I suppose that if you've thrown in the towel, that would be the less damaging way to go about it.", 
        "That's true I guess Conor preferred to be submitted rather than ko'd", 
        "McGregor actually believed in his own loss word by word.", 
        "Mystic Mac folks", 
        "I [knew](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49ebeq/nates_win_over_conor_p4p_one_of_the_greatest/d0r7wde) someone would get it done properly in here. Nice OP!", 
        "mystic mac lmao", 
        "Word for word. That must mean the fight was coded wrong.\n\nThe wrong guy won; quality assurance fucked up.", 
        "McGregor actually believed in his own hype had got a little too obsessed with thinking he was right there.", 
        "I've hated Conor before he was famous. I guess that makes me a hipster? Sod off you new haters I've been doing this for years.", 
        "Damn. That has to be hard to watch for McGregor, but when you're that opinionated and proactive in selling a fight it will eventually come back to bite you on the ass, always. Nate is a absolute boss, though. ", 
        "Conor really needed that Jordan Burroughs rumor to be true....dat double leg.", 
        "Damn that is freakin' creepy!", 
        "Delicious", 
        "It was s close fight until about the two minute mark. After that Diaz just started whopping their ass. ", 
        "Excellent porn music.", 
        "Glorious.", 
        "I bet Chad and Aldo wished they took him to the ground more.", 
        "Hard not to laugh. The pretentious narrative  was gold. ", 
        "Saying that 'his jujitsu is overrated' got me thinking ", 
        "Foreshadowing is the word you're looking for :)", 
        "Meanwhile Holly is jabbing at imaginary people just moments before its lights out. Sure, words matter.", 
        "Him and Rousey started thinking they could not be beat. I felt like Mcgregor was being honest with himself about all his opponents until I heard this shit.", 
        "I think the rub it in his face posts here get way too many upvotes. I was happy Nate won and I was cheering for him to win ever since before the fight. But I still think the amount of hate posts vs the amount of informative/respectful posts is really off lately on r/MMA..", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Its completely different he hyped the fight... Did you see Nate talk shit after he won? You are just a hater if you do that. ", 
        "Conor's entire life story is being a hater. Cry some more.", 
        "Like Joe Rogan once said, people talking shit and hating about others on the internet are just a bunch of sad loosers.", 
        "The spooky x-files sounding techno song really shined here", 
        "I respect the shit out of Conor, but these videos will never get old.", 
        "i bet diaz watched this and made it his goal just to beat connor like connor thought he would beat diaz..", 
        "That was a mighty full plate too.", 
        "Very accurate if he was talking for Diaz. ", 
        "I have to read more about the Diaz brothers now, just like many of us out there I guess, as they seem like the real deal people. \n\nI saw Kron Gracie in Nate's camp, and that after-thought made it so much more ironic looking at Conor's comments pre-fight.\n\nI mean, you're not exactly known for grappling and ground game. And the guy in front of you is a Gracie student, for gods sakes. If not respect, have a little more recognition and awareness of the situation you're getting yourself into. \n\nOn that note, I highly suggest watching some of Kron's videos, he's one of the best grapplers and jj masters I have had the pleasure of watching. So slick, and so deadly in his grapple.", 
        "The Diaz brothers have been around forever in MMA and have been putting on entertaining fights for years and years.", 
        "This is why I don't like trash talking before a fight. Yell shit after he's unconscious on the matt. ", 
        "As much as I believe Conor deserves the hate for all the shit he has been asking for since '14... I still can't help feel bad for the guy,  like any other human being.\n\nHave been a Diaz fan since '09 for clarification mofuckas!!", 
        "don't worry. he was already back to calling other ufc fighters pussies the morning after his loss. i'm not a fan of his, but he'll be fine and come back strong.", 
        "The guy is an obnoxiously arrogant asshole-period.", 
        "i'm gonna have to agree. imo he's the kanye west of the ufc. ", 
        "I know this thread is all about hating on McGregor, but the video clip tries to portray the grappling exchange in the first round as \"Conor eating his words\", when, in fact, that was a really nice sweep from x-guard/single x-guard by Conor.\nJust saying.", 
        "The amount of people jumping on the anti-Conor bandwagoning is adorable.  Just remember, you're the one sitting behind a computer celebrating someone's downfall, while that person you're shitting on is living his dream.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Huh?  This place is McPrick nut hugger central-just not this thread.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">  they just jump shit. \n\nShip. It's \"Jump ship\" ...not shit.\n\nAnd no, the comments were fine before the CNH's came to this sub.", 
        "Conor talks shit and you're upset when people attack his shit talking persona... pretty adorable. ", 
        "i bet on nate winning but stop hating on mcgregor, he sells the shit so well.", 
        "Downvote for Mcgregor to make a comeback", 
        "Wow this is prime shit post. You literally edited out all of the parts of the fight that Conor did well and showed the parts Nate did well to make Conor look bad.\n\n[The heel which Conor used well for distance](http://i4.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article7504149.ece/ALTERNATES/s615b/Conor-McGregor-vs-Nate-Diaz.jpg)\n\n[The front of the foot which buckled Nate's knee](https://fat.gfycat.com/NaturalGrandGemsbuck.gif)\n\n[The uppercut which Conor landed several times](https://fat.gfycat.com/GrimFirstEgret.gif)\n\n[The overhand, which busting Nick's face](https://giant.gfycat.com/AcrobaticBlushingHermitcrab.gif)\n\n[And here is Nate on his back before you cut it](https://giant.gfycat.com/BlankWarmCaecilian.gif)\n\nThe sad part is you must of watched the fight several times to edit this video. Nate won that fight by being the better fighter but you still chose to be disingenous for the sake of karma\n\nEdit: Grammar is my forte", 
        "Agreed. And as someone with a new level of respect for Diaz, this attitude only diminishes what he overcame. ", 
        "> And as someone with a new level of respect for Diaz, this attitude only diminishes what he overcame.\n\nWHAT?\n\nWhy would people's opinions on internet forums affect your perception of a fighter?  \n\nThey have no control over any of this.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", 
        "Not sure if serious.. The respect comes from his performance in the fight. The opinion that Conor didn't do anything well in the fight (ie. the entire first round), is not one I hold. What part of what I said has anything to do with what you said?", 
        "WHAT?\n\n", 
        "Shhh, goes against the rhetoric that Nate dominated Conor entire fight and he got a few slaps in. This board is Calling out \"McGregor nuthuggers\" yet he is equally shittalked everyone in UFC. ", 
        "Yeah, the circlejerk is trying their best to make it seem like Conor got demolished and Nate won with his superior bjj. People with shitty lives love nothing more than kicking people who have accomplished great things in life while they're down.", 
        "Same reason everyone hates Hitler, the success lol.", 
        "> You literally edited out all of the parts of the fight that Conor did well and showed the parts Nate did well to make Conor look bad.\n\nNo shit.", 
        "> You litereally edited out all of the parts that of the fight that Conor did well and showed the parts Nate did well to make Conor look bad.\n\nHoly Fuk.", 
        "the circle jerk is real ", 
        "if nate talked as much smack as conor and conor won, there would plenty of posts just like this, probably much more.", 
        "Wait, everyone saw Conor beat Nate up pretty bad in the first round, right?", 
        "\"But but that Diaz chin!\" No doubt dude has a chin, but I'm not sure mcg touched it. Looked like those lefts were glancing off right brow to me. Things definitely could have gone differently. ", 
        "Go rewatch the match, the 1st round was very close and Conor couldn't do shit to Nate besides open up some scar tissue.\n\nAND this was NO CAMP fat boy Cabo Nate that DESTROYED a full camp Conor and not only that but he STOCKTON SLAPPED him and humiliated him.", 
        "He exhausted himself and didn't even wobble Diaz... ", 
        "Should we give him a participation ribbon then?", 
        "Just like you probably gave Mendez? Sure.", 
        "Someone is mad their boy lost....\n\nBash a 2 weeks notice, camp-less Mendes, who didn't talk shit and almost ended it early for McGregor. Good one.\n\n", 
        "Plus, I never bashed Mendez.", 
        "Nobody is making excuses. Nate is a beast. Any fan of MMA knows this. I love both of these guys, but when people rejoice when a guy loses is lame. Nate and Conor are badasses for taking this fight on 10 days notice.", 
        "Losing Sucks no doubt about that, especially when there are thousands of people who relish in taunting the losers in life, but everyone forgets that this guy had to go up two weight classes to find someone that would pose a real challenge for him, and he said fuck yeah I'll do that!", 
        "1 weight class, nice excuse though!", 
        "He's a featherweight and he fought Diaz at 170 that's two", 
        "> , especially when there are thousands of people who relish in taunting the losers in life\n\n\nJust in case you are unaware, we don't taunt losers here, just the super cocky ignorant ones.\n", 
        "http://ftw.usatoday.com/2016/03/ufc-196-conor-mcgregor-hype-trash-talk-nate-diaz", 
        "At least he didn't go Mia like Ronda ", 
        "For what it's worth, one of those snippets didn't match up.\n\n\"his jiu jitsu is overrated\" was paired with video of Nate getting caught in what we call \"the idiot sweep\" in class.\n\nNot saying for a second that his skills are overrated of course.", 
        "It's because Nate \"don't give a fuck.  WAT!\"\n\nAll joking aside, Nate has hella strong jit from the bottom.  He wasn't at all concerned about getting swept, so didn't fight it.  He was perfectly happy pulling guard and cranking the neck.", 
        "Actually that leg [sweep](https://giant.gfycat.com/BlankWarmCaecilian.gif) wasn't bad at all.", 
        "Notice how he was getting slapped like an Irish whore while doing that?", 
        "I think he needed a loss like this to show him he can still improve. Hopefully he will learn from this and not have as much disrespect and disregard for his next opponent. ", 
        "2 breakfasts can be exhausting. ", 
        "Hater's gonna hate \n", 
        "oh look a bieber fan ", 
        "Lets just praise Nate. Giving up his 40s, 50s and 60s mental health just to entertain us for a while.\n\nHes gonna be some serious manic depressive vegetable by the time hes old.", 
        "he'll probably end up like those old boxers with a tick, he's already got a slurr.", 
        "Somebody is always going to lose.  Wouldn't you rather have them enter the ring being confident, though?", 
        "There's a difference between being confident and being a pretentious shitstain.   \nDo you think - let's say - Fedor was not confident? Ridiculous. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "> i even think he could be should perhaps \n\nI have to revise as I read your paragraphs.", 
        "Jon Jones is undefeated.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Nah everyone loses in MMA cause theres to many aspects you have to be great at and anyone can get caught. Holly Holm isn't going anywhere. She will get the belt again. Look how many takedowns she stuffed! ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "you saltier than the dead sea", 
        "[Nate is Good](https://mobilefightclub.files.wordpress.com/2014/01/59dc6-11natediazvs-joshthomson3.gif?w=320&h=180)\n\nI love you butthurt nerds! lol", 
        "You know this was not McGregor's first loss either...\n\n", 
        "Connor lost, back to WWE for you then?", 
        "Oooh you're looking at old messages. \n\nThat's the sign of a loser. You are emotional and looking for ammo.\n\nLooks like i won this one. lol", 
        "Your ass must be hurting pretty badly right about now huh?", 
        "Not as bad Nate when he got his ass kicked by Thomson.", 
        "I'm not a Diaz fanboy, I just find it funny that the fans that have been here for 15 minutes(due to Conor) are in complete damage control mode. The only argument you are making by calling Nate a lesser fighter, is that your boy Conor got slept by a lesser fighter. Brilliant. ", 
        "Who said my boy was Conor? I'm just posting a great finish.", 
        "In a desperate attempt to defend Conor", 
        "Why would i need to defend the Featherweight Champion of the world who koed Aldo in 13 seconds? \n\nAldo the same guy MORONS like you probably talked up for years. Get the fuck outta here, chump.", 
        "Still not ko'd, didn't tap", 
        "Still got his ass kicked. lol\n\n", 
        "Atleast he didn't tap like a midget Irish bitch.", 
        "[yo i can do that shit too motherfucker](https://youtu.be/lkjwIZhT5hg?t=2m31s)\n\nConor has white belt choke defence.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "You seem more butt hurt than anyone with the fact that you had to post that lol", 
        "Nah i just like to show how great Nate is when he got his ass kicked by Thomson.", 
        "The Conor loss must've ruined your night then hahah", 
        "Nah i don't care who wins or loses. I love the sport.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Same here sometimes it sucks to see one of my favorites lose but in the end it's all part of the fight game. I love to see a good fight and in any sport there is a winner and a loser ", 
        "I up voted you. Not the dipshit dorks that down vote everything.", 
        "You're pitiful.", 
        "There was one exchange were Nates knee buckled right? Conor did that knee stomp when Nates leg was sideways. I thought it looked bad", 
        "The conor hate on this sub is real, im a diaz fan but damn", 
        "cant wait for things to shift back to neutral.", 
        "This subreddit is unbelievable! All of these Diaz fans would have been McGregor fans 3 weeks ago. Fuck the lot of you, pathetic fucks. I can see how Diaz is more relatable since you're all miserably poverty stricken fucks ", 
        "I've been a Diaz fan long before I ever knew who McGregor was. Fuck you for assuming we all like your favorite fighter. ", 
        "MMA is gay! They always be talking about mounting dudes.", 
        "Holy shit i've never seen a sub's circlejerk 180 so quickly before and i've been here since the beginning.", 
        "The hate Conor circlejerk is strong here now, as if KO Aldo in 13 seconds means nothing now. Suppose this is what Aldo/Mendes fans had to listen to from bandwagoners.", 
        "At least he had the balls to say what he thought.  He was wrong.  Most fighters are afraid to say shit incase they end up being wrong, and get it thrown in the face after the fact.  Part of the reason Conor has become so popular is because he just says what he thinks, we can't all say we love that and then shit on him when he inevitably gets it wrong.", 
        "> At least he had the balls to say what he thought.\n\nThen he is delusional. Saying Nate's BJJ is underrated is just crazy talk, and does not require \"balls\".\n\n", 
        "I didn't say he was right. It's just his opinion, he believes it, and he said it. I like that.  ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "I like people who aren't afraid to share their opinion.  Whether I agree with that opinion is a different matter.", 
        "You like Kim Jung too? How about the KKK?", 
        "There's no loss of footage from this fight that you can cut together to make it look like Diaz got destroyed. Conor crushed that eye, went to the body extensively and brought it to Diaz' knees. A lot of the post fight comments seem to lean heavily toward the idea that Conor got handled easily, it was far from it. The beginning of the end didn't come till midway through the 2nd rd.", 
        "> Conor crushed that eye, went to the body extensively\n\nConnor had 7 body shots, to Diaz' 9 body shots....\n\nExtensive?\n", 
        "It's funny how this video shows Nate with the striking advantage which couldn't be further from the truth. ", 
        "Hmm... very fishy.", 
        "Hahahaha funny shit dude....\n\n\"touch butt in the park with the dork with the pony tail\" \n\nI dont think that will ever stop being funny", 
        "I made this, slightly buzzed from a few drinks, right after the fight... And I still stand by my work.\n\n[diaz mcgregor touch butt meme](http://i.imgur.com/ec5K1Lh.jpg)", 
        "I laughed more at that than maybe anything any other MMA fighter has ever said. Maybe I'm biased but I thought he was much, much funnier than Conor.", 
        "that was perfect.  diaz backed it up too....", 
        "Conor fan here checking in... Yup that touch-butt line is funny as fuck. ", 
        "Mods! Ban this McGregor fan", 
        "I wish we had a \"Team Ido Dorktal\" flair, I'd rock it forever.", 
        "Hahahaha Ido looks like he'd well and truly be up for touching Conors butt, aswell as any other male in the vicinity", 
        "Going off the downvotes there must be plenty of other butt touchers lurking around here", 
        "Reporting up for the downvote train!", 
        "Why tho?", 
        "\"Homophobia is fun you guys!\" Do one you prick", 
        "35 downvotes? Harsh. ", 
        "I know I would", 
        "And he doesn't prepare that shit.", 
        "This is hysterical ", 
        "Can't stop laughing myself.  I'm not a Conor hater but Nate had some absolute platinum one-liners and this video is genius.", 
        "every now and then Nate surprises you with a zinger \"im not suprised motherfuckers\" should go down in the hall of fame as the best post fight one liner ever", 
        "Nate's always cracked me up, but it still catches me off-guard. It's only so surprising because he sounds dopey and punch-drunk all the time.", 
        "\"What is this the money channel?\"\n\nEven McGregor laughed at that one.", 
        "'Anderson Silva, you absolutely suck!!' is still no1 for me lol", 
        "I will remember that moment for the rest of my life,  and so should MMA history", 
        "It is destined to be a meme.", 
        ">the best post fight one liner ever\n\nThat honor belongs to Paul Buentenello's [\"Don't fear me, fear the consequences\"](https://youtu.be/V6lOz-0qvqE)", 
        "His delivery was awful though ", 
        "Man, he really thought everyone was gonna know that.\n\nI been a hardcore mma fan for like 12 years and I wouldn't have known to shout that.", 
        "There's gotta be a GIF of this somewhere, no? This dude is alright lol.", 
        "And there were so many conor fans with 500 to win 100, it stung a few ppl in the crowd at the MGM.", 
        "I was really surprised by the lack of support Conor got when Joe started his interview.  I've seen two live Conor fights now and the Irish crowd was ridiculous (in an enjoyable way).  Kinda disappointing to see them not support him as much in defeat.", 
        "Yep, I was surprised he was getting some boos as he walked up to the mic. Just goes to show how quick the bandwagon fans will turn on ya. ", 
        "It's pretty pathetic to boo a fighter after putting on a fight like that.", 
        "Think of how many people across the nation lost a fuckload of money on Saturday.", 
        "Nate: \"What's up, Joseph?\" (rubs Joe Rogan's belly)\n\nJoe: \"Nate Diaz, you just shook up the world. How's that feel?\" \n\nNate: \"I'm not surprised, motherfuckers!\"\n\nProps to Nate for anticipating Joe's favorite post-fight interview question: \"Was there anything about [insert fighter's name] that surprised you?\" Nate beat a lot of guys to the punch on March 5, 2016. \n\n\n", 
        "Im not surprised anytime Diaz says some shit. Diaz bro's are gold ", 
        "I hope they become commentators someday.", 
        "Whoa, let's not get ahead of ourselves.", 
        "God I hope not. I love both of them but their habit mumbling and losing the end of sentences wouldn't work well for commentary. ", 
        "Maybe they could do interviews or post-fight analysis. Much like Chael I like listening to them as much or more than watching them fight. ", 
        "Agreed man....Nates a fucken riot! \n\n\"Im not surprised motherfuckers!\"\nIs so damn raw...only he could come up with something so perfect...", 
        "Nick Diaz could do better", 
        "I feel like Nate Diaz is the brighter brother of the two lol ", 
        "Idk it was pretty perfect. ", 
        "I know! It is so clever it makes my brain hurt!", 
        "Unequivocally the most real shit an underdog could have possibly said in his shoes.", 
        "As a die hard McGregor fan, I can confirm that that was badass.", 
        "I liked that nugget of wisdom when he said not even Conor believes what he says, he hopes, it's his opponents that believed him.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTzhVVIjLCE#t=5m48s", 
        "This was my favorite moment as well. Nate knows talk when he hears it, and he called this one on the button. I honestly think he got in Conor's head at points leading up to this fight.", 
        "Well just look at the weigh-ins. Nate made Conor almost jump off the stage by flinching at him from 5 feet away lol.", 
        "although i do think, conor's downfall was he started believing his own shit (/ufc-propaganda-machine's shit) ... he abandoned the fighting basics and went for the homerun because he felt it was expected it him", 
        "Conor's downfall was the UFC could no longer protect him.  \"Downfall\" would imply he was greater than that performance, he's never been.  They can only give you so many home crowd fights against opponents hand picked not to expose your weaknesses before the fans don't buy into it anymore.  Now that Misha Tate out popped him in the UFC's backyard and he lost his next fight will be in Ireland against somebody they don't feel is a threat like Kawajiri.  ", 
        "This. Exactly this. I've been saying it since Conor first started blowing up. The UFC loves doing this shit with popular fighters. It's just exactly WWE pro wrestling angles, and everyone falls for it every god damn time. So frustrating.", 
        "What \"downfall\" are we talking about? He lost one fight to a great fighter not in his weight class. How is that a downfall? ", 
        "The downfall in this case refers to public perception, which is far more important than meaningless fighter win-loss records.", 
        "I love the overreactions of a champion moving up to 170 like Conor did to take a fight he didn't have to take. While there isn't a single champ in the UFC that would do what he did. It's one fucking loss GTFO.", 
        "\"A fight he didn't have to take\"  \n\nHe said it was the fight he wanted anyways.  The only overreaction is your crying. ", 
        "Downfall? He lost one fight. Slow your roll, hes still got the strap. Jesus.", 
        "Connor is far from finished. He lost a fight, he didn't die. He'll still talk shit and he'll still pull in millions for the organisation. Unlike Rousey he accepted his loss.\n\nFuck me people are acting like he's finished because he lost a fight. ", 
        "I rather believe that Nate will be his Buster Douglas, throwing him from his high horse and ultimately making him a lot better.\n\nAh but imagine if we would have had social media back in the Tyson-Douglas days", 
        "Yeah except Tyson didn't have to worry about grappling and jiujitsu. All he had to do was fix a few errors in his boxing and be more cautious. McGregors dilemma is much bigger than that, he now knows his chin isn't invincible, he now knows his grappling and groundwork needs work, these aren't things you can fix in 1-2 months, these will require time and patience. ", 
        "He's a far better businessman than a fighter.", 
        "To the downvote, I dont think saying this is actually a negative to Conor. That motherfucker can sell a fight harder than any punch thrown, period. And that's not a bad thing at all.", 
        "He's not finished. But his mystique is long gone. Good luck talking shit coming off of a loss like that. \n\nHe says he accepted his loss, but his eyes and body language tell a different story. Plus he has a row of killers ahead of him at 145lbs and 155lbs. It's not looking good for him now that he has to face real contenders.", 
        "Taking a beating isn't going to stop him talking shit, it's how he makes his money. \n\nHaving a lineup of good fighters ahead of him is exactly what he needs - he absolutely dominated FW and now has a challenge ahead of him, and we'll see if he adapts to fighting bigger, better fighters compared to what he's used to. He will lose again, but you can bet he'll learn from each loss.\n\nIf Nate and Connor meet again in the ring it will be a much closer fight than it was this time. ", 
        "He made his money because of the hype from talking shit. People bought into it. Who's going to listen now that he's losing? He didn't dominate FW, aside from Aldo he barely even fought any top contenders. He was handed fights all the way to the top. Pay attention.", 
        "> Who's going to listen now that he's losing?\n\nHe lost one fight. The Diaz brothers talk tonnes of shit and guess what, they're still fighting, and still winning, after losing multiple fights. I think *you* need to pay attention. Connor stood up and took his loss on the chin, he didn't storm out of the octagon or talk shit saying Diaz won by fluke.\n\nHe's still the FW champion and he has to defend his belt, and that's gonna involve a lot of shit talk seeing as though all the contenders are calling him out. You really think a rematch with Aldo wouldn't pull in millions? Even if he lost to Aldo that'd work in his favour, because then they can have a rubber match, hype it to fuck, and make even more cash. ", 
        "I'm glad you pointed his body language out. As someone who has studied body language extensively you are absolutely onto something. I knew he was off a bit mentally when he punched Nates hand at the face off, and when he also was silent on a few of the things Nate said, it just seemed like he was in a state of shock that someone (Nate Diaz) could have the audicity to talk shit back to him and question his fighting credentials. McGregor had himself convinced he was the P4P #1 and he didn't like Nate questioning that one bit and you could tell it was irritating him. \n\nNow after the fight, his body language showed that the loss is affecting him a lot more than many people realize. His entire personality basically changed right after the loss. Just the way he looked at Nate Diaz right after the fight in the post fight conference showed a man who was mentally defeated. \n\nIt doesn't mean he can't come back from this but he's far from \"over\" his loss. ", 
        "Agreed. His entire mystique was gone in a flash. He was also believing his own hype. You don't just get over that. People have been consumed by far less.", 
        "Conor can only pull in millions if the UFC chooses to continue putting millions into marketing their entire company around him.  ", 
        "I'm hoping the whole mystic Mac bullshit is finished though. ", 
        "What do you mean? He predicted deez tings again right down to the finish, only problem is he predicted his own demise lol ", 
        "His shit talk is getting repetitive, it lame.\n\n\n\n\nNot even entertaining anymore.\n\n\n\nCheesie shtick ", 
        "It was disappointing when he started to repeat phrases. A shit talker has to be inventive", 
        "Yep it was already starting to get lame around the time he had to fight Aldo. Then afterwards it just became way too lame and repetitive, same shit over and over, money, cars, PPV buys, money, money, snake skin shoes, money, money, all fighters are broke except me, money, money. That's basically all he talked about, it was getting really repetitive. ", 
        "You'd be crazy to think he's finished. It's just funny to see him brought down to earth. If you're gonna talk that much shit, you better be able to take it from millions of haters on your worse day. ", 
        "Absolutely.\n\nI don't necessarily think I enjoyed seeing him lose, I just fucking loved seeing Nate win. Hopefully this loss will ground him some, but not enough that he stops talking shit, because him talking shit made things interesting, and makes his loss even more interesting as we'll see how he'll recover. ", 
        "No one is acting like he's finished, but I think we all know his next is likely to be home crowd against someone he'll beat. \n\nHe's way too fucking valuable to the UFC to risk him losing too many in a row. \n\nFor what it's worth, I don't think he's shit.  But I do believe his fighting ability doesn't live up to his shit talking money generating ability. And end of the day, it's the later that matters to Dana and Co.  ", 
        "You do realise he's still champion?? Not gonna be seeing a title fight in Ireland versus a weak opponent", 
        "his next fight will be against aldo or edgar...\nboth not easy fights", 
        "I don't think they can help giving him a great fighter at this point. Conor may be a draw but, like Brock, he's gonna have to sink or swim. He has two challengers and if he starts dodging them he'll just look worse and worse.\n\nConor has to win his next fight. That's all. And then he can go from there. \n\nUnfortunately for him, he doesn't have easy fights. At best they can stack the best stylistic match-up for him.", 
        "Yeah there's Aldo and Edgar, period. Don't know how people think that's being protected.", 
        "I'd more say Edgar and dos Anjos. I think Edgar deserves a shot way more than Aldo at this point, and dos Anjos is left without resolution that people wanted.", 
        "Agreed if aldo lays back I think he could pick conor apart. And Frankie man he could whoop conor for 5 rounds if he doesn't get caught and even if he does get caught Frankie has one hell of a chin too like diaz", 
        "I can actually respect Conor now. His persona really turned me off because I thought he was trying too hard to be controversial but after the loss he admitted his mistakes and that Nate was the better man.\n\nOwning up to his shortcomings is much more intriguing than talking bullshit ever was.", 
        "Yeah and he called for the rematch. Cant wait to see him get slapped around again.", 
        "Chad Mendes did expose a weakness of Conor's. ", 
        "Too bad he couldn't get the job done. I seriously mean that too. I wanted the hype train to die out much sooner. ", 
        "I think with a full camp Mendes beats the snot out of McGregor. His wrestling is just too good for someone with Conor's ground game.", 
        "Conor and his crew doing River Dance on video exposed his weakness", 
        "> [Joseph Duffy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lkjwIZhT5hg) did expose a weakness of Conor's.\n\nFTFY", 
        "And the UFC responded booking him in fights where him getting taken down wasn't likely to happen.  What do people think is going to happen now, that Edgar is gonna get a full camp and shot at him?  They'd never allow it.  ", 
        "Amen, the only way Edgar gets a shot is if Aldo gets hurt with a week left before the fight.  No wrestler is getting a full camp against him ever.", 
        "Its funny Nate said that in the Fox interview post fight, he looked at Frankie and said \"You think they're gonna let you fight him with a full camp?\"", 
        "I thought he had Conor beat...  ran out of gas and then got caught.", 
        "He wasn't just \"caught\", Chad got eaten alive on the feet, save for a couple overhands that landed.", 
        "Eaten alive? Conor was getting the better of the stand up but definitely wasn't eaten alive lol ", 
        "Yea, Mendes also exposed his chin a bit.  Had him wobbled.", 
        "It was completely one sided on the feet.\n\nIs there some sort of revisionist MMA history going on here? I get there has to be some sort of backlash for all the shit Conor has talked, but Conor straight up out-classed him on the feet. Chad has a standup *war* with Aldo, and all he can land on Conor is a right hook and 2 overhands. ", 
        "He became a character, the problem is the character he picked was an immortal God with unbeatable skills, that's a hell of a high bar to set for yourself", 
        "He broke the first rule, \"Never believe your own hype\" he needs to go watch his old interviews", 
        "This. ", 
        "I believe Conor overestimating himself goes hand in hand with him massively underestimating Nate.\nHe just saw a skinnyfat dadbod without camp and a 18-10 record while obviously truly believing he is the p4p greatest with the most insane work ethic and most revolutionary training methods.", 
        "he still could very well be the p4p greatest with the most insane work ethic and revolutionary training methods...\nMMA has a funny way of changing all plans and preperations with the flick of a jab.", 
        "You cant underestimate a Diaz! this is what made me bet on Nate", 
        "I bet 50 and cashed out 200, you ponyd up more I hope. I wish Id had a little more faith.", 
        "Bout the same, I just took a bunch out of my account bc i needed the money :(", 
        "You would have to be an idiot to think Nate's 18-10 record is bad. He's mostly fought top guys all his career while Conor has a heavily padded record. Nate called him out so they thought now is the perfect time to kill all the Nate hype since it was so short notice. So glad he lost in devastating fashion.", 
        "> most revolutionary training methods.\n\nIf you mean the touch butt stuff then that is a complete waste of time, and probably does more harm than good.", 
        "He only plays touchbutt during fight week so it's all good. Probably is good for him too.", 
        "yeah he says conor believes in it tho", 
        "he means the touch-butt training camp", 
        "HUBRIS, MOTHERFUCKER!!!", 
        "the best part was when nate says \"my brother will kill you.\" and chuckles. holy shit.", 
        "what time in the video does that happen? i cant seem to find it", 
        "about 5.5 mark\nAnd hes right Nick would straight up kill conor...\nBut the laughter ahahahahahh \n", 
        "After Conor says, \"his brothers at the club\"", 
        "tbh conor seems abit emotional over the whole interview when nate gives him good answers he cant handle thi shit.", 
        "Oh shit when was that that's fucking brilliant \n\nEDIT: First off, thanks for the link. Secondly, man I get so blown away by Diaz. He's goes and drops shit like the part you quoted and I go \"man, this dude is smart as shit,\" but then at the end he's saying no one even knows what a gazelle is in America. The fact that he can get people so well and have so little book knowledge is crazy to me. ", 
        "I love it. They've always been real.", 
        "The dumbest motherfuckers I've ever known were all book smart.", 
        "Yeah, I'll edit the original comment.", 
        "No use for book knowledge in stockton.", 
        "That was massive. Nate saw straight through Conor and called him out and it shook Conor just the tinniest bit", 
        "\"Against a normal sized human being\" was fucking hilarious too. ", 
        "\"You beat three midgets now you're all pumped up\"", 
        "The best part is its a goofy statement, but he had a fucking point", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What\n", 
        "I didn't say anything <__>", 
        "where is this from? the press conference when he talked about conor fighting midgets? ", 
        "Speaking with Rogan in the ring after the fight.  He was saying he would have more knockouts but, he starts landing and then \"all the sudden they think they're wrestlers.\"  So he chokes 'em out Dawg.  ", 
        "Yeah. Conor was mocking Nate's last fight being a decision. Nate said \"A decision against a normal sized human being.\"", 
        "And let's not forget \"Oh, so you're a wrestler now?\"", 
        "when was this from?  forgive my ignorance.", 
        "He said it in the post-fight Fox interview, but also said it in the immediate post-fight interview with Joe Rogan. Something like:\n\n\"Probably I got so many submissions because you start KO'ing someone, and suddenly they're a wrestler\".\n\nThen in the Fox interview, he said it again, in a different way.", 
        "Post-fight Fox interview, where he was surrounded by \"midgets\" like Dom and Frankie", 
        "HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA...I'm in tears. You could have just said the Post-fight Fox interview...but Nooooooo...HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA. GOLD!!", 
        "You alright there, mate?", 
        "I wish that was a flair.", 
        "I feel the same for \"Normal Sized human being\"", 
        "/u/random_sTp can this be made a thing please?", 
        "Heh, I'll hook you guys up later.", 
        "You're the real hero.", 
        "Sorted :)", 
        "I just noticed this :D !!!! Thx !!", 
        "the mentioned ponytail guy looks like that yoga trainer from gta v", 
        "Namaste", 
        "The edits coming out after the Conor loss are motherfuckin gold.", 
        "Can you link other edits on Connor plaese?", 
        "[Nate Diaz shows Conor McGregor how he counts to five.. ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SO9RK9vIFhA)", 
        "That is too perfect", 
        "[When keeping it real goes wrong](https://streamable.com/wc4f)\n\n[Eat your own words](https://streamable.com/rz5e)\n\n[Best moments](https://streamable.com/it1l)\n\nThere are a couple more I guess, but these are the ones I upvoted.", 
        "These are pretty bad though, eh?", 
        "That cowboy old western music killed it, I can't stop laughing at that part every time \ud83d\ude02  ", 
        "God damnit, now I need to rewatch the Chappelle show. ", 
        "This is spectacular lol", 
        "Thanks man", 
        "the chappelle show edit is too fucking perfect!", 
        "GRANNY DONT! LMAO", 
        "Nothing has topped \"Thank you Edmund\" though lol", 
        "https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=dzpmZf-8oaY\n\nDisagree.", 
        "Link me plz", 
        "[Thank you Edmond](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzxFgVYyMcE)", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzxFgVYyMcE\n\nBONUS: https://youtu.be/dzpmZf-8oaY", 
        "Im dead", 
        "This is incredible. I'd never seen Thank You Edmund. This is high level.", 
        "holy fuck was that shadow boxing from Ronda satire? ", 
        "The only thing that could possibly top it is as the camera zooms in at Edmond at the end, they turn his eyebrows into birds and they fly away lol ", 
        "I love how they use the Titanic theme song from Matt Mulholland, used to go to school with that dude ", 
        "I'm surprised I haven't seen a GTAV style \"wasted\" video for Nate's finish", 
        "Someone in the comments said Ronda's arms look like flailing ham hocks ..hahaha", 
        "Never seen that. Holy crap, I'm crying with laughter. Thank you so much. I needed that today.", 
        "Man Edmond is unmistakeably Armenian", 
        "The off-tune recorder is pure gold!", 
        "That bonus clip doe... hahaha!", 
        "brought me back to my Dance Dance Revolution days...", 
        "i choked on my coffee. ", 
        "The surprise ending was amazing", 
        "*That bonus clip joe... hahaha", 
        "Haha holy shit what is that a 6 year old playing a recorder? Amazing music choice ", 
        "It's a funny video on its own. ", 
        "It's from a YouTube comedian/musician's clip. Matt Mulholland from New Zealand.\n\n https://youtu.be/X2WH8mHJnhM", 
        "This nearly brought me to tears of laughter. Its 5AM. Today is a good day.", 
        "This is awesome to hear, thanks!  I originally wasn't going to post this anywhere", 
        "yeah that was brilliant man!  I showed this to so many people today that I'm actually starting to like that song! haha", 
        "ive seen it linked on other forums already", 
        " I remember when Conor lost the coach's challenge on TUF and the same exact thing played in my head.", 
        "... you make videos and keep them to yourself?", 
        "Uh yeah, weird right? It's something I enjoy doing but I get self conscious about anything I create and just expect it to be downvoted and hated so I usually don't bother uploading them anywhere", 
        "Pressure's on, now", 
        "Hey, sharing is caring :D\nYou did an excellent job, I'm pretty sure you have some gems saved somewhere. Do share, love! This one had me in stitches.", 
        "Dude your work is great, share that shit and upload it on YouTube and get some $$ off of those views bro. ", 
        "I hope you start posting those videos after this.", 
        "sounds like you need a visit form Darth Vader of the Planet Vulcan", 
        "[No affiliate. But buy this book.](http://www.amazon.co.uk/Show-Your-Work-Getting-Discovered/dp/076117897X)", 
        "I second /u/moshkid213\n\nI use to be afraid of getting downvoted till I realized some of my favorite comments were getting downvoted, and that most the world believes in god. Public opinion don't mean shit.  Say the same thing in two different threads and get completely different responses.  If you think it's funny/good, you should share it. This vid sitting in your personal (unshared) archives would be a tragedy.", 
        "Yeah, most people thought Conor won the first round too.\n\n\npiff, people, what a bunch of bastards.", 
        "I'm not sure if you're being sarcastic or not.  In terms of damage, I definitely thought Conor did.  In terms of gas tank expenditure (leading to his end), he set himself up for the loss in the second..\n\nThis was one of my favorite fights of all time.  I talk a little shit on mcgregor, but both these guys make this sport fucking awesome.", 
        "I'm not being sarcastic.\n\nNate landed 5 less shots in round one and secured a takedown.\n\nIf you have access to the fight, watch it again without commentary. Nate landed accurate shots right on Conors chin the whole round, Conor is winging left hands that Nate is mitigating the damage of by rolling his head with the punch.\n\nConor never does that, Conor eats each shot 100%.\n\nWatch the third replay at the end of round 1 where they show conor \"Land\" a left hand.\n\nNate hits Conor with a right hook coming in, Conor hits Nate with a glancing left hand, and then Nate hits Conor with another solid right hook.\n\nNo one mentions a single fucking thing about the 2 solid shots Nate lands to Conors 1 half shot.", 
        "will do.  If you're right, I'm sure Nate's cut jaded my objectivity.", 
        "You ever rewatch that fight? I hear nate vs conor rematch by in the works for ufc 200", 
        "Dude, it's the internet. Just post your shit with total anonymity! \n\nEven if it's shit, it doesn't matter. ", 
        "Hahah that's why I first uploaded to streamable instead of youtube", 
        "Hahaha that's real talk", 
        "\u201cThe problem with the world is that the intelligent people are full of doubts, while the stupid ones are full of confidence.\u201d \u2015 Charles Bukowski\n\n[Sauce](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/428040-the-problem-with-the-world-is-that-the-intelligent-people)", 
        "\u201cThe problem with the world is that the intelligent people are full of doubts, while the stupid ones are full of confidence.\u201d \n\n- Kenny Florian\n", 
        "The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser people so full of doubts.\n\n- Bertrand Russell", 
        "Let the world see your work brotha!", 
        "Dude.  Share your talent.  Bring joy to the world.  ", 
        "You made this yourself?? Pure gold!\n", 
        "I did, thank you!", 
        "Hands down one of the funniest things I've ever seen, thank you ", 
        "In tears, thank you for this", 
        "Wtf, actual OC? ", 
        "Burns just as bad, too @_@", 
        "Oh man I'm so happy you did. This is glorious. Laughed so much I don't have to do ab exercises for the rest of the week", 
        "Since you have all this free time now, maybe you should try out Ido Portals new Movement Culture.", 
        "I came here to say this also. I was alone and full out losing my shit laughing for the entire music segment.", 
        "I shared it to facebook, all 5 of my friends liked it!", 
        "Five whole friends?  I'm gonna call you Hollywood. ", 
        "By the way, give props to the video that started it all. Simon and Garfunkel at their best. This still pulls me up in the grimmest of moments: https://streamable.com/ufg2 (or when I just need a wank)", 
        "This is amazing", 
        "And for the sake of completeness, originally it's an Arrested Development running gag: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYrwTVsckmI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYrwTVsckmI)", 
        "The mariachi band one at 1:35 is just pure gold", 
        "It goes back even [further](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZEl-J7lTkKU) than that.", 
        "Decent usage here too: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sl5lz9CNlkE", 
        "You're missing a great effect here.", 
        "Fuckin golden video", 
        "Fucking Joe man, lmao.", 
        "POWERFUL JOE ROGAN!!", 
        "8/10 needs more pool noodle", 
        "PoolNoodle or GTFO!", 
        "Reminds me of Shane Mosley and the towel. ", 
        "Man Conor is **still** getting roasted.  If Mayweather ever lost, the internet would break for a month. ", 
        "Dude, it's been like 4 days...", 
        "True, but the memes are getting funnier, which makes it seem new.   ", 
        "To be fair I thought about making this before he lost", 
        "LOL I didn't know you made it.  Funny stuff.", 
        "Now that Connor lost.. I'm curious to know if he regretted spending time on money on touch-butt classes", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You don't know what you're talking about. Eddie Bravo has said Conor's jiu jitsu is very high level. He knows better than you do. ", 
        "If you think he evades BJJ or has a non-existent/poor ground game, you're not watching properly.", 
        "Kab se MMA dekh rahe ho?", 
        "What? Lol. ", 
        "Since when have you been watching MMA?", 
        "Oh. Hindi. Not my language. A bit over a year as a hardcore, closer to two as a casual \"oh it's on TV\" sort of thing. Why? ", 
        "Just asking. ", 
        "Somehow I don't think he paid for the training. Maybe that dork in the park paid Conor for the exposure?", 
        "No", 
        "Touch butt was payment enough.  ", 
        "He touched the butt", 
        "gay for pay is always an option", 
        "Ido Portal is known to be a very good coach in the BWF scene. But he is also known to be a total asshole, like if fans approach him he will react really weird and stuff. But he is a good coach Conor probably spend his cash well.", 
        ">Ido Portal is known to be a very good coach in the BWF scene.\n\nHe's also a generalist though, afaik he's not going to be able to provide the strength benefits an actual high level gymnastics coach could and he doesn't have the fighting experience to really implement his movement philosophy into fighting from anything I've seen him do/say.\n\nHis stuff is good for the general population because it's all a lot of knowledge combined into one philosophy/program. It's questionable for a pro-fighter, but I can't imagine Conor neglects actual training to train with him.", 
        "I doubt it, its worked for him until now, why should one loss change everything?", 
        "You're talking like this one loss invalidates his whole training philosophy. The dude is still 22/3...", 
        "19 - 3, 22 fights in total", 
        "Very few against legit opposition ", 
        "Just because he lost, it doesnt mean this training method is bad or was contributing factor in that loss. How many fighters have lost fight after perfectly normal training camps? Does that mean that every fighter who was training BJJ and lost should never train BJJ again? No, that is completely stupid. I think that it makes perfect sense to try and stay active a week or two out of a fight but do so in a way that limits injury.", 
        "i mean the Ido shit IS bad. It's stupid and just trying to be edgy. ", 
        "He lost due to being out boxed.\n\nI like Conors approach to MMA, his philosophy on dead space, movement, and training are all really good.\n\nHowever they aren't good unless you compliment it with the basics, like boxing, kick boxing, wrestling.\n\nIf he spent more time training low kicks, or a jab, instead of touchbutt it would have been a much different fight.", 
        "The equivalent of redditors (or net denizens anywhere) telling OP to drop their girlfriend/wife and get a lawyer anytime they ask for advice regarding a problem in their love life.\n\nBlow it up! Start over!", 
        "The hate is two-fold. First, \"movement\" is a very broad term. I know what gymnastics is; I know what capoeira is; I have no idea what he means by movement. It comes across very bro-sciency. Second, when guys like GSP and Pat Cummins do gymnastics, they don't have their gymnastics coach work on their striking or grappling.", 
        "haha, I get that. But we are judging him on 5 mins of Embedded footage, a week out of a fight. I'm sure he had legitimate boxing/stand up/muay thai coaches working his striking in the 8 - 10 weeks leading up to the fight. Again I'm not legitimising Ido/Movement coaching in general, I was just trying to point out how silly it is to drop the blame of this loss on that particular aspect.", 
        "People are mocking the things that they're doing, but to be honest they're not as \"out there\" as most people are making out. The pool noodle stuff is used by professional boxers, and gymnastics was used by GSP. So really people are making out that Ido Portal is some sort of new age lunatic, but in reality they're not doing anything truly insane.", 
        "Watching the fight back, its impressive how smooth he moves inside the range when he lands some of his combos. The movement has to be training that", 
        "What boxing trainer chases a guy around with a single pool noodle? ", 
        "[Former world champion Steve Cunningham?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yphDgI-G7m4)", 
        "Pretty sure Naazim is using two noodles in that video. If you can't see the second one perhaps a trip to a doctor might be in order for you. ", 
        "The intense ring work Ido put Conor through (as seen on Embedded episode) only a few days out concerned me as not enough time for arms/muscle to fully recover. And of course that Capoeira kick Conor used in the fight.", 
        "Why are people mocking the pool noodle thing? My boxing coach has always used them as a way to train head movement. Shit works.", 
        "I think people just look at Portal and see him as some sort of new-age vegan hippie type. But, if you watch interviews of him, he hates vegans and describes himself as anti-pc.\n\nI honestly think people wouldn't mind him so much if he just lost the stupid man-bun.\n\nPlus, it's not exactly fighting but he was a capoeirista for 15 years.", 
        "It's not that far out there, but at the same time Conor had no place to be shitting on Nate's training partners.", 
        "Idk man, line dancing by the pool is a pretty ludacris fight preparation. A lot of the balance and calisthenic stuff makes sense but it's like anything, you gotta distibguish the good from the bad IMO.", 
        "How you ain't gone fuck?, bitch I'm me\n\nI'm the goddamn reason you in V.I.P", 
        "You need a new hobby buddy. ", 
        "> Ido Portal is some sort of new age lunatic,\n\nWell, he is definitely not a fighter or a trainer, so its weird to see him doing footwork or timing drills with conor. and having the dude in his corner? I mean, why not just run a contest and have a superfan be in your corner? You'll probably get better advice.", 
        "I mean I can shout \"nice and flowy\" and \"keep it light\" over and over. ", 
        "Well he's a capoeirista. Capoeira has a lot of elements that could be brought to the fight game.", 
        "is he on a level that he should be training world champions? i dont think so.", 
        "This I agree, definitely.", 
        "I'm no Conor fan at all, and I do think he's overrated, but that just means he has holes in his game (like many people). It doesn't mean he's wrong about the whole \"kinetic movement\" thing. As you mention, people like GSP, Rickson Gracie have been doing it for years. Jigoro Kano and Kyuzo Mifune repeatedly emphasize that the core principle of judo is balance, posture and movement.\n\nI was extremely happy that Conor lost, but if there's one bad thing to come from it, it's that people will discredit \"kinetic\" training, which is a real shame.", 
        "Well, so much for kinetic thing when you are tired and end up in a brawl with Nate Diaz.", 
        "The shame of it all is the fact that ppl would still be on movement training's bandwagon had Conor won. ", 
        "I don't think anyone is discrediting Rickson's brand of 'kinetic' training (or whatever, I always figured that was called Yoga). \n\nThe joke is Conor training with this fraud Ido Portal and actually thinking his touch butt and little dances would have a direct result in his fighting.\n\nNate and Nick Diaz are vegans (sort of), they probably do yoga too. Most professional athletes do yoga at some level, because it helps avoid injuries. But they don't replace yoga (or kinetic whatever) with the actual training they need to do the be good at their sport.\n\nNate Diaz is far from an unbeatable fighter. If Conor spent less time touching butt and more time watching Nate's previous fights, he wouldn't have played right into Nate's gameplan. ", 
        "I don't know if that's true. I don't think he dedicated as much time to \"movement\" as you are making out. It's not like he didn't have a regular camp. We can make claims about fighters \"doing more of this\" and \"less of that\" when all we have are the UFC Embeddeds to go off of. \n\nI think the problem was taking the fight against Nate on only 2 weeks notice. Nate is a stylistic nightmare for anyone and is tough as nails. I think him, his brother and machida (with a chin) are the worst fights to take on last notice. But let's leave the arm chair MMA coaching for conversations with your friends who know nothing about MMA", 
        "> let's leave the arm chair MMA coaching for conversations with your friends who know nothing about MMA\n\nSo you are suggesting we shut down /r/mma? \n\nFunny how, every fucking time one of these hyped beyond measure fighters like Conor gets beaten, there is always some dork calling for people to stop issuing opinions on the subject. \n\nMy response to that: ONLY CHAMPS CAN SAY SHIT BRA! FLABBY BELLY 4 LIFE! 209 BITCHES!", 
        "Hey man first off 209 all god damn day. But what I'm talking about is saying that a predestination athlete \"should be/shouldn't be\" doing something sounds ridiculous on a message board. Especially when all your basing your \"advice\" on is a couple 6-8 minute Embeddeds that have been maticulously edited", 
        ">Nate Diaz is far from an unbeatable fighter. If Conor spent less time touching butt and more time watching Nate's previous fights, he wouldn't have played right into Nate's gameplan.\n\nIf he stopped bragging about not changing for individual fighters too.\n", 
        "Its very common to do both, jiu Jitsu and yoga. Remember this guys are black belts", 
        "Can confirm, my jiu jitsu instructor/owner was married to the owner of my yoga studio.", 
        "Yep, I do 10 minute yoga sessions after all my training just simply to assist recovery and help my muscles from being too stiff right after workout. ", 
        "Knew a guy who had a yoga class with Nate. Safe to assume Nick has taken yoga classes as well. Fits in with their vegan, non-gmo, organic lifestyle.", 
        "Don't think they're vegan, pretty sure they eat fish and eggs n stuff...\n", 
        "I don't think it's the training so much as how important Conor tries to make it seem, going so far as having him in his corner. What advice could he possibly give Conor in the middle of the fight? Nice and flowy, Conor? Why not have an actual coach there? Hubris, that's why. ", 
        "People should aim to move well, but please learn to do so in a less cultish \"I'm a personal brand\"-way. Please.", 
        "I agree with your statement insofar as the training goes, but I've also yet to listen to a movement coach who isn't so far up their own ass with bullshit lunatic broscience.", 
        "\"We're re-training the neurons\"", 
        "That's basic physiotherapy. Nothing bro science about that at all", 
        "Lol he really said that? \ud83d\ude48", 
        "Doubt it. He's pretty vocal about his love of movement. People seem to forget he still trained like any other regular fighter and think he replaced his training camp with Ido for the two weeks he was with him. ", 
        "He should work on moving his head out of way. ", 
        "People put way to much weight into this training.  There are a lot of things I would blame this loss on (head hunting, lack of ground skills, etc) but this training is not one of them.\n\nThe main advantage of this training is not anything in the fight, it is to get Conors mind off the fight.  Training sucks, your body breaks down, it is very stressful.  Something like this will add a little to your skill level, but mostly is a fun thing to help your mind from getting overwhelmed.\n\nMany athletes have something like this.  The Diaz brothers have it with Triathalons, have you ever noticed how happy they seem to talk about them?  I have seen wrestlers training for the national tournament that only want to talk about some silly game they played in the mat room before practice. \n\n If not into training, think of training like a college semester.  This movement training with Ido Portal is basically that one credit fun class to get his mind off the stress of a schedule with Calculus and Bio Chem.  It just gets a lot more attention because it is different, and he shows it off to help him stand out from other fighters.", 
        "*meuvement ", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vFu2y4WNnE", 
        "Holy shit he's gollum", 
        "I just realized those were the guys that did [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4mZScZc8H1Q)", 
        "[Youtube mirror](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nwSHhHdu7T4)\n\nCompressed as fuck because I have shitty Australian internet\n\nEdit: Thanks for the gold whoever it was :)", 
        "***UFC 196, the gift that keeps on giving***", 
        "I'm not surprised, motherfucker", 
        "Oh, so you're a memer now?", 
        "I'm one of the few around here who still thinks Kavanagh and Portal are a decent team but\n\n\"My whole team will fucking beat your whole team's ass, so how about that?\"\n\nwas just gold.  ", 
        "Goddamnit.... Well done ", 
        "Haha still material coming from 196", 
        "Its going to be a while. Conor left SO MUCH to work with", 
        "Yep. Benefits of a big mouth = lots of exposure, lots of interest, lots of money. Negatives of a big mouth = when it rains, it pours. ", 
        "I fucking love this. Can't even feel bad for Conor, he talked himself right in to this. ", 
        "I'm a Mcgregor fan but this is hilarious", 
        "The videos people have been making are fucking amazing. I didn't think anything could top the 'when keepin it real goes wrong' one.", 
        "Agreed... the touch butt scenes are just too much.", 
        "reality check", 
        "Perfectly way too long excruciating song. Outstanding.", 
        "Funniest one yet. 10 out of 10.", 
        "Is this the GOP debates", 
        "Lol Nick Diaz was showing this video on his snapchat ", 
        "That was simply the best thing I've ever seen in my life. ", 
        "*slow claps*", 
        "Conor started to chew that gum harder than Ray Allen did. ", 
        "Nate is single handedly ruining Ido Portals career.", 
        "two handed. \n", 
        "*Single handedly* is proper movement efficiency", 
        "Pretty funny. Although Ido has to go, you can't deny that Conor's control of his movement and his strength is amazing. Those muscle ups and tuck planches are no joke. But to see Ido making up striking drills...fuck me, gtfo", 
        "You can be arnold schwartzenagger, but it doesn't mean it is going to make you a better fighter. Magreggor kept bringing up the looks of Nates body, but Nate doesn't train to try and look like an underwear model. He is training to fight people", 
        "Absolutely, but  explosive muscle ups and planches are more transferrable to MMA than, say, lateral raises.\n\n\nI doubt that Conor trains to look good at all, he's always basically had that type of body, but I didn't like him ragging on Nate's physique...them feels.", 
        "But actual grappling and wrestling and padwork and sparring tranfers even better. Magreggor has some holes in his game, why not fix those before you are spending time doing parcore. You only have a few hours to train each day, you gotta be efficient.", 
        "Parkour, its French\n\nSorry I hate to be that guy but I was staring at it trying to think of what you were talking about... I thought you were talking about some \"core\" training shit I'd never hear of and then it hit me when I sounded it out \"OHHHH it's  Parkour!\"\n", 
        "Schwarzenegger and McGregor \ud83d\ude09\n\nJust in case.", 
        "Haha thanks, I just sounded it out, thought it was close enough haha", 
        "Hope life is good mate \ud83d\ude04", 
        "It is now!", 
        "Developing functional strength through the full range of every joint does help a fighter though and that's what gymnastic training offers.", 
        "True, but you do that as a supplement to your other training. When you have holes in your game, you might want to spend more time fixing those first. Plus get an actual strength coach.", 
        "I don't think Conor's loss to Nate had much to do with Ido.\n\nHe just came up against a guy who was taller and longer than he is. It was his first UFC fight against a guy he didn't have a reach advantage on, and Nate's reach was 6 inches longer than his average UFC opponent.\n\nNate also has good boxing, good movement, and great BJJ. I think McGregor underestimated him, and they didn't plan for a guy that they couldn't control the distance with, and they overestimated how Conor's power would factor up two weight classes (or 1.5 I guess, since Nate usually fights at 155). \n\nNate Diaz is a lot better than he gets credit for sometimes. He's sort of the forgotten Diaz brother since he drops fights here and there, and he's less prone to outbursts than Nick.", 
        "I can't disagree with almost all of that. But I do think that a few weeks training for a rangey boxer would have helped more than, say, balancing exercises.", 
        "[Well you got my vote!](http://i.imgur.com/a9kygHq.png). ", 
        "ido is a disgusting zionist clown", 
        "Wait what since when is he a Zionist?", 
        "Ido's movement: http://golden-dawn-international-newsroom.blogspot.nl/2013/01/the-coudenhove-kalergi-plan-genocide-of.html", 
        "Is there a better way to start your morning on /r/mma?", 
        "I almost spit my coffee out when the music started.", 
        "did he just do a yes cartwheel?\n", 
        "The fight the just doesn't stop giving - this was one of my favourites.", 
        "i still think the movement shit is useful. but it's an amplifier of your other skills, not a skill on its own. his striking is top tier, but if you can't wrestle, you can't wrestle man. touching butts doesn't solve that, and he needs to work on it.", 
        "his BJJ is poor as well, ", 
        "Not according to Eddie Bravo. ", 
        "(if we are talking about the same JRE episode) actually eddie didnt say his BJJ was good, he said he wasnt afraid to roll with his best guys. He was more impressed by the fact he wasnt afraid to get beat up and \"embarrassed\" by his purple belts. He said that a lot of UFC fighters wont roll with because they dont want to be embarrassed by someone. If I recall he also got tapped out by them too. ", 
        "Brings tears to the eyes.  OP, you are doing God's work.  ", 
        "Post of the year.", 
        "Haha Nick was watching this on his snapchat story \ud83d\ude02", 
        "i'm a Conor fan, but damn that video was funny", 
        "I'm a fan of entertaining shit, this is entertaining shit.", 
        "Too funny, the music was perfect\n\n\n\n", 
        "Haha, this one is really brutal.", 
        "I don't think there's anything wrong with Ido, except he's a bit wack-a-doo, but I do question the wisdom of spending fight week with him.  (Maybe he did other stuff but kept it off cameras?)  Sharpen your grappling!  Get ready!  \n\nCondit seemed to have carved out the right amount of time for working with his pony-tailer.  (Again, working from incomplete information.)", 
        "I suppose it beats drinking your own piss or yoga during a thunderstorm.", 
        "To be fair, Gunnar Nelson is a top notch fighter.", 
        "MY PENIS IS BIGGER THAN **YOUR** PENIS", 
        "That was fucking hilarious but just to be real for a sec, those calisthenics are actually brilliant for building practical strength. Better than weight lifting, you could argue. The tap dancing across the driveway, not so much.", 
        "I can't believe how hard I laughed at this", 
        "I'm just sitting here, wishing both teams would fight it out, like in Anchorman.", 
        "Jake Shields taps out Ido + Artem at the same time. Nick Diaz slaps the rest into submission.", 
        "I got lost in this clip. ", 
        "Everybody's got a plan until they get punched in the face.", 
        "Who wants to play touchbutt in the park with me?", 
        "This fucking subreddit sometimes, man, I'm so happy. ", 
        "luke thomas talked about your post on his podcast, well done OP", 
        "Thanks! Can you link that podcast for me please?", 
        "https://youtu.be/3XIR0kVigQg?t=1h23m14s", 
        "[Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3XIR0kVigQg), didn't take note of the time, its somewhere in the third quarter, basically said he found it really funny", 
        "Thanks buddy", 
        "try the last 20-30 mins of it on second thought", 
        "Two things: Conor should stay at 155.\n\nSecondly: The Diaz brothers just do triathlons, climb trees, practice jiu-jitsu, probably smack the shit out of each other, have noggins made of iron and granite, and definitely rip huge bongers. (I don't  know what that has to do with MMA, except they know how to calm the anger and keep an even keel.)\n\nThey aren't perfect, but you better fucking know what you are doing if you get in the ring with them. The gravy is they talk shit better than Conor's wet dream. But they usually back it up.\n\nMcGregor is lucky Nate Diaz doesn't chase him down two weight classes and take away everything.\n\nConor never had a chance.", 
        "I feel the Diaz bros are the cleaners and hired by the UFC to teach lessons, Dana knows they are heavy bags, the ultimate shitstick 3000.\nI bet *watch this, hihi* is the most used line when the Diaz bros are being called in.", 
        "You're right. They are too toxic for their own good. McGregor isn't a good fighter necessarily, but he's a great draw. The Diaz brothers are pretty damn good, but not the best draw. They aren't champions. But McGregor never was either except for that vicious right hook. Nate Diaz weathered the storm.\n\nSo I agree: the Diaz brothers are like a broom for Dana to keep other fighters honest. ", 
        "This might very well be the funniest thing on the internet.", 
        "ido portal is such a fucking idiot/sham artist. he also steals shit from breakdancers, some of the footwork movement i.e. that cross step with right foot over the left is from 'top rocking' in breakdancing.", 
        "Is there a break dancer guild that copyrights all that stuff for personal bboy use only?\n\nNo one cares. ", 
        "It's a Capoeira thing mostly, although most people call that \"breakdance fighting\" now because of eddie gordo and tekkin, it's still rooted in martial arts. ", 
        "**How the fuck did Conor and Ido even get in contact?**\n\nDid Ido reach out and bamboozle him, or did Conor see him on Youtube or something? I cannot believe Kavanagh let him go near him. Sure the flexibility etc has benefits, but your talking a seminar or two, not *THE CORNER!*", 
        "Conor has been following Ido's work for a while and references him and movement training in older interviews. They met up eventually.", 
        "That's basically his whole \"thing\" he's \"traveled the world studying movement\" so you don't have to. Demands top dollar for showing you things, but even though I'm not a huge fan of the guy, it makes sense unless you want to go and hire a capoeira guy, a dancer, a gymnast, etc to show you shit.\n\nA lot of his students will also say brainwashy shit like \"not everybody can teach\" and apparently Ido is a good teacher, at least in person. He has an online training program which is really expensive and consists mostly of e-mails. He's also obsessed with confidentiality agreements, if you ever attend a camp or sign on for online training you have to sign an agreement saying you basically won't share the material or (I think) use it to market yourself or make yourself money.\n\nThe people that go to his insanely expensive movement camps have to be rich bored kids.. ", 
        "\"Rich kids shouldn't fucking fight. You were born rich.\" - the great philosopher known as Nate Diaz. Lolll so many good quotes from this fight. ", 
        "Confidentiality agreements, online courses about physical skills, cultish shit - sounds like a scam to me.", 
        "Conor should have never made that move, how does he ever regain credibility?", 
        "By showing people a replay of all his fights in the UFC", 
        "> how does he ever regain credibility?\n\n\nIf he beats the shit out of Aldo in the next fight then after wards hands him the belt back and says \"youre never gonna beat me Jose\" in an immediate vacate", 
        "By winning his next fight", 
        "Aldo?", 
        "or Edgar. I think he will only fight once more at 145 and win or loose will move up to 155 for good. I'd like to see him beat Edgar and then go up and work his way up through the top 10. There are some really interesting fights and re-matches at 155. Diaz, Poirier, even Duffy.", 
        "He haaas to fight and beat Edgar at this point. If he doesn't, it looks like he is trying to duck him.", 
        "Savage", 
        "God I really hope he gets rid of Ido and uses his time wiser. Every clip of him doing 'touch butt in the park' seems to be a waste of time. I fail to see how anything he does with Ido can translate to a better performance in the Octagon.", 
        "It can help if you have mastered everything else, buut the best way to get better at fighting is to fight. You don't have to knock each others heads off in the gym, but you still need to spend nearly all your time doing actual fight training.", 
        "I'm sad that he lost, but goddamn was that hilarious", 
        "I'm sad too, Conor is still one of my favourite fighters", 
        "hahahahahahhaaha. great work. ", 
        "Props for Simon & Garfunkel. Perfect. ", 
        "Funny as shit man. ", 
        "Can't even finish the last few seconds I was laughing my ass off. 10/10", 
        "This is golden!", 
        "Great shit man. Almost choked on my coffee", 
        "That was sensational.", 
        "Nate's shit talking is VASTLY underrated. The homie brought his smack talk A-game.", 
        "F'ing LOL.  Ruthless...", 
        "LMAOOOOOOOOO", 
        "Someone please put the clips of them moving in a group to Thriller.", 
        "Brilliantly put together, poor Conor.", 
        "Ido portals methods just look ever more silly by the day.  I think gsp's approach of using body weight/gymnastics training has for more mma applications than what Conor was doing. ", 
        "Nothing really wrong with it. The prancing around trains Conor to be light on his feet for example. Conor has only himself to blame for the backlash. Imagine if he put Nate to sleep, people would have to go on a waiting list to acquire Portal's services.", 
        "I like Conor, but this was hilarious. The cartwheel with the music got me.", 
        "pure gold", 
        "that was wonderful.", 
        "Oh that's so mean...", 
        "crying laughing, fucking hell hilarious ", 
        "genious !!", 
        "lol, that's some really good editing. ", 
        "\"vision planted in my brain\" holy fuck, Nate defeated the grandmaster of mind games at his own game.", 
        "The music has me dying", 
        "hahahahahahah that fucking music killed me.\n", 
        "It's super quiet at work and I started dying when the song came on.", 
        "yep. Me too!", 
        "Kavanagh said on the MMA Hour, I think, after Conor knocked out Aldo how he would have been called an imbecile had Conor lost with all that talk about the movement training. ", 
        "Omfg I pissed myself laughing, that cart wheel did it... holy shit...\n\nman buns and parks, how did it NOT work? ", 
        "Amazing!", 
        "I didn't know mentally handicapped people were allowed to fight.", 
        "This is glorious.", 
        "Conor may want to lay off the touch butt for the future. ", 
        "Dude, you beat me to it haha. I was already doing something similar, diferent scenes, same song.\n\nMeh I guess Ill post it anyways along the week..\n\nNice job =).", 
        "Dey dont swallow hard pills like i swallow,  - Just Dessserts fed Conor", 
        "Got a lol out of me", 
        "playing touch butt ", 
        "lmao this is hilarious ", 
        "ALL TIME FAVORITE NATE QUOTE OR BY ANY FIGHTER:\n\n\"You beat 3 midgets and now you all pumped up\"\n\nNate I love you ", 
        "was waiting for stillshot of conor getting rocked on his feet, then tapping out\n\nleft disappointed", 
        "Omg", 
        "I really wanted to see a video like this after the Aldo fight :(", 
        "It's funnier with Nate though, because no one really favoured him. Also, Nate said some hilarious lines. ", 
        "Takes a bigger idiot to shout over an idiot. This was quite funny though.", 
        "logged in to say, thank you for this.", 
        "The touch butt guy reminds me of the Yoga guy from GTA5", 
        "In this thread.. downvotes from all the Conor fan bois, Beware. ", 
        ".", 
        "\"playing touch butt\".....holy fuck I need oxygen!", 
        "Meant to say \"can't\"* don't know how to edit", 
        "I suppose its worth pointing out that the 1st UFC was basically an infomercial for BJJ. Imagine if Royce got squashed instead people would be laughing and ridiculing the Gracies for lying on the ground and wrapping their legs around muscular man beasts.  Conor's talk about movement and training didnt perform as advertised hence all the heckling.", 
        "I thought I was over the Conor hate, but damn this is amazing. ", 
        "I don't hate him, he's one of my favourite fighters, but i thought this would be pretty funny to make", 
        "Holy shit... I spit my coffee up all over my beautiful monitor... That was awesome.", 
        "Meh, still think Conor's training is completely valid, he can move well, perhaps just needs to include someone a bit LONGER to train against.", 
        "People keep giving him shit for his training and maybe he should include other MMA fundamentals, but if you think that training balance and coordination is bad in MMA you are delusional.  ", 
        "This might be the best thing I've ever seen on /r/MMA ", 
        "This is fucking classic hahaha ", 
        "Soooooo good", 
        "What kind of training is this crap seriously", 
        "I was tired of all the Conor memes until seeing this one. ", 
        "\"Touch butt with that dork in the park\" that shit is hilarious. But I genuinely think Conner is onto somthing with the movement coaching. His striking looked outstanding against Diaz in the first round. He really did light him up with the left hand. Only thing, he was going for that knockout way too early and Nate is extremely hard to put away. Nate took everything Conner had and then turned up the heat in the second. Nates boxing is brilliant. But i still think Conner has some of the best, most fluent striking in the sport. ", 
        "Next time they fight Conor will win.  Hes going to go on a massive win streak - mark my works, in fact save them lol. ", 
        "RemindMe! 360 days", 
        "LOL why 360 days?? ", 
        "A year seems so long! lol ", 
        "To see that massive streak.", 
        "I will be messaging you on [**2017-03-04 18:41:33 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2017-03-04 18:41:33 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49nan9/poor_conor/d0tnrhl)\n\n[**CLICK THIS LINK**](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49nan9/poor_conor/d0tnrhl]%0A%0ARemindMe!  360 days) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.\n\n^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! d0tnsc7)\n\n_____\n\n|[^([FAQs])](http://www.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^([Custom])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^([Your Reminders])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^([Feedback])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^([Code])](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)\n|-|-|-|-|-|", 
        "Greatest shitpost of all time :')", 
        "G.O.B Bluth anyone?", 
        "I kinda don't understand the movement training hate.   I used to skateboard so I guess I take control over my legs and balance for granted.   Meanwhile, I'd get laughed out of any gym if I were to start shadowboxing.   It's all relevant.   I doubt he really picked up good balance and calisthenics while installing toilets in Ireland.", 
        "lmfao", 
        "Ido was shredded compared to Conor throughout this camp, like c'mon for fuck sake.", 
        "I died", 
        "That was the greatest thing ever, Vu my fren.", 
        "Gunner needs to abandon ship and get to a new Gym, he has alot of talent, wasting so much time with IDO", 
        "Diaz kinda sounds like the older brother from \"greatest freak out\" ", 
        "The depth of that stare..", 
        "Hopefully going forward Conor will limit the time he spends playing touch butt and pool noodle and use that time to train grappling. ", 
        "He's just a [lonely boy Oh oh-oh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91NWZKkhMkU)", 
        "[Literally playing touchbutt in the park](https://youtu.be/91NWZKkhMkU?t=1m33s)", 
        "joe is right, he does look like jesus", 
        "Yo real talk that shit looked like a training session straight outta \"Hot Rod\"", 
        "In retrospect Nate definitely got the better of the press conferences", 
        "That was beyond awesome(and is addictive)!!!!!!", 
        "I want to see Conor own this, go for it in fights and make it his version of the Stockton Slap.", 
        "Oh god, that stuff at the house was hard to watch with the music.", 
        "Aside from the pool noodle stuff though Ido Portal's methods are very practical.", 
        "at that moment he knew.....he fucked up!", 
        "public humilation is a small price to pay for fame and fortune. Soon as the next person fucks up, boom new lease on life.", 
        "This is the hardest I've laughed in a long time. I really needed this right now, too. ", 
        "Brilliant :)  I don't get why everyone shits on the movement stuff tbh, he only does for the last week or two of his camp to stay limber and not injure himself, the hard work has been done by then.  Funny shit tho  ", 
        "Fucken hell. When's this week going to end?", 
        "If you're referring to people mocking McGregor, they will actually never stop, this is going to be a continous thing. It's stupid but that's the nature of the Internet. ", 
        "More just this continued aftermath of the event. I don't remember there ever being post-hype anywhere near it. ", 
        "Where were you when Rousey lost? This kind of shit was everywhere.", 
        "It's still there in some threads with rousey. ", 
        "Haha i was thinking of making the same video with the \"sound of silence\"-song in the background. But it wouldn't be as funny as this one dude! good stuff", 
        "That was the sound of silence ?", 
        "Hilarious! I woke up howling \ud83d\ude02", 
        "It always pleasantly surprises me when The Sound Of Silence kicks in on one of these videos lol. Savage af.", 
        "OMG, this is HILARIOUS ", 
        "\"I DONT JUST TAP OUT, I PICK THE ROUND\"-Abel \"the preachers daughter\" Trujillo ", 
        "A clip of Nate's \"you hope\" rant would be great as well.", 
        "Nate's trash talk isn't even trash talk, he's just speaking the truth.", 
        "\"Nate, count to five.\"\n\n\"One, two, three, four, SLAP!\"", 
        "this is quite hilarious, but honestly im happy such an unorthodox fighter is having as much success as hes had.  theres so much room for experimenting and tweaking styles still in mma and i think for a while we were stuck in a rut where the sport wasnt evolving very much.  it started evolving before conor but he is a great expression of it. ", 
        "\"Ello?\"\n\n\"Conor, hey it's Ronda..\"\n\n\"Ehh, howz ya doin Ronda?\"\n\n\"I am just calling to warn you, stay off the Internet for at least 6 months.\"\n\n\"Deez tings can't bodder me!\"\n\n\" Ronda, oh yes they will, oh yes they will....take it from me...stay off the moors and off the Internet stick to the gym.\"", 
        "Doesn't beat the Rousey Holm Garfunkelage, but this is art nonetheless.", 
        "Why does Diaz talk like he's got a gumball in his mouth? Is he missing teeth? ", 
        "So the way a guy speaks defines his character and warrants a jab like that? He beat your boy Conor, get over it ;)\n\nHe also doesn't give a fuck Motherfucker...209", 
        "Alright alright, yeah I'm bummed he lost but I really was just wondering!", 
        "People are mocking the things that they're doing, but to be honest they're not as \"out there\" as most people are making out. The pool noodle stuff is used by professional boxers, and gymnastics was used by GSP. So really people are making out that Ido Portal is some sort of new age lunatic, but in reality they're not doing anything truly insane.\n", 
        "Conor tapped... Holly didn't... SHE went out like a Champion, She fought till everything went dark and was still trying to throw punches... barely a squeeze and that guy caved in. ", 
        "found the guy who has never trained ", 
        "K, looks like I need take a break from this sub for a bit if this is the how retarded some of the comments are right now.", 
        "This sounds like \"My dad can beat up your dad.\"\n", 
        "Well he's not exactly poor", 
        "Why can't these top fighters get some proper trainers? This guy and Rousey are at the top of their game and they choose to train with retards for some mysterious reason. Maybe it's the hits to the head.", 
        "Well if you think about it up until their losses it was working better than everyone else's plan", 
        "If I was them, I'd put up a front like I'm training with whackjob hippies in public when in private I'm training properly. The key is to make yourself SEEM like you're super overconfident and you're going to make mistakes. Not to be overconfident and make mistakes.", 
        "This might be crazy enough to work", 
        "This is a shitpost, but I like it. ", 
        "Not a shitpost. This is gold haha", 
        "Haven't you heard, shitposting until March 20th!  (and I'm not complaining)", 
        "Oh so poor.. still made 1 million+ dollars to....  lose\n", 
        "Suggestion: Somebody should edit this to end with the slow motion of him getting stunned when Nate caught him with that first big punch to the face in the second round. The way his eyes went dead would perfectly match up with the music.", 
        "You only need to look at Nate's face after the fight to see who got the worst of it. Yeah, Conor tapped out, but Nate took the beating.", 
        "A cut is a lot less damage than getting rocked... Diaz rocked Mcgregor twice and Mcgregor basically gave up so he didnt get put out cold", 
        "I'm not taking anything away from Nate's win. It's just that he looked considerably worse than Conor at the post fight presser. ", 
        "Look at GSP after he beat Hendricks. Busted his face, but won the fight.", 
        "Same thing, even though GSP won he got the worst of it. ", 
        "Nate has a lot of scar tissue, just because he was bleeding doesn't mean it was significant damage ", 
        "It was more than just the scar tissue. At the post fight conference Nate looked like he definitely got the worst of it.", 
        "My face vs my pride......i'll keep my pride lol ", 
        "Yeah cause Conor quit as soon as he got scared", 
        "Not hating on this post (Love it) but how is this different than my post https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49fe8v/spoiler_when_im_nate_diaz/ that was removed because it contained \"memes\"", 
        "I liked it haha. Yeah I could see them not wanting it here because it looks like a mlg kid made it. I really thought it was funny though", 
        "Ok non-mma follower here, found this in /r/all and initially assume it was /r/UnexpectedThugLife \n\nBut I'm not getting what makes this funny / a 3x guilded post. Don't misunderstand me I'm not gonna come into your clubhouse and kick sand in your face. I just don't understand. This Nate fellow seems like kind of a dick, which I guess is par for the course when you punch people for a living. \n\nIs there some long-standing history between these two I don't know? Is the trainer in question truly just that goofy looking? I see lots of comments about how it was a clever zinger but frankly I'm not seeing it. So I'm guessing I just don't have the required context.", 
        "you're right it's a total shit post.  Not funny, not even well done.  Some guy threw together part of an interview with a bunch of Conor training with Ido Portal to a Simon and Garfunkle song.\n\nCompare to these and you see why I say this:\nhttp://i.imgur.com/eyduBwu.gifv\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzxFgVYyMcE\n\nWorks of art both.  If you're gonna shitpost, do it right.", 
        "OP is a Conor fan and wasn't shitposting afaik", 
        "Meme posts are against the rules of the sub.  \n\nI happen to think this one is really poorly done and only popular because of the high level of Conor hate.  Not that I like the guy either but this is just stupid.  If it was as funny as the ones I linked I wouldn't complain.", 
        "How am I just now seeing that gif?  Damn that's great.\n\nETA: You gotta put the full Thank You Edmond video on there.  It's only right.", 
        "You must not know who Conor Mcgregor is if you think Nate is a bully.", 
        "I mean context tells me he's an MMA fighter, but that's about it. Though one persons bearing has nothing to do with another, though I wouldn't say he was being a bully. Just kind of a dick, which again is probably normal and to be expected. You wouldn't see regular people talk to each other like MMA fighters talk to earch other for sure.", 
        "nate is a dick during the fight and has that street mentality for those he is going to fight. its how he maintains focus. after the fights he is very respectful and by all accounts very approachable and a nice guy", 
        "I can't wait for Diaz next loss. Pay backs a bitch and those dudes lose a lot. You guys will be so butt hurt. ", 
        "Not really . I'm a Diaz fan but I understand there is a possibly that everyone can lose a fight. I honestly thought Conor would take this fight from a logical point of view. However , it made it so much better that all the Mcgregor nut hugger were so pissed. I was watching it at this party and these dudes would not stop on how Conor is invincible. They were so butthurt lol. But really no I wouldn't be upset it's the fight game there is always a winner and loser ", 
        "that's the thing about Diaz(s). Their fans don't assume they will win every fight.   \nOn any given day, anyone can beat a Diaz, sadly for the rest of the UFC, the inverse \n is also true, On any given day, A Diaz can beat anyone.  Not many Diaz fans will be \nbutthurt by a loss.   \nGod, if they put him up against RDA, He'll get crushed more than likely.  \n\n", 
        "Like Nate did? ", 
        "I was talking about Nate, didn't realize he'd fought RDA. Gonna have to check that one out.", 
        "I love the Diaz bros. For a long time now. But the 209 love this time around is insane.  Just wanted to give a little shit back to you guys. ", 
        "At least it won't be against a midget.", 
        "hahaha", 
        "Conor finally lost now everyone can emerge to say that the movement training doesn't work... I mean... Despite the championship belt and all... Fuck that gay ponytail guy, right? Right guys am I doing this correctly? ", 
        "Although Conor has a big mouth leading up to fights, he deserves more credit for fighting Diaz at 170lbs.  Conor probably would have had an advantage if he forced Nate to do a weight cut, but he agreed to 170lbs, which is a long way from featherweight, weight cut or not. \n\nNot saying he would have won with a weightcut, just saying that you don't see too many fighters with so much to lose have the balls to go ahead with such a fight.  ", 
        "Please explain how he would have had an advantage? Also, do you think he would have beat RDA for the lightweight belt?", 
        "Conors only chance against rda would be a ko before he gases.    He wouldn't be able to avoid rdas ground game for long, and we have seen his ground game needs work. \n\nIrt Nates advantages; the 155 cut is harder for Nate, and his body is better adapted to perform at 170 lbs.  Unlike people want to think here, it takes time for the cardiovascular and muscular systems to adapt to greater weights.  Nates taller, and longer than Conor, he  cut weight, and has better cardio than Conor even though he only had two weeks notice.  \n\nEven with all these disadvantages, Conor took the fight at catch weight.  I thought Conor would use the Nate blueprint of attacking the lead leg, but instead chose to box him.  I don't think Nate has ever lost in a straight up boxing match.  The only chance Conor would have in that game would be to have endurance like TJ dillishaw, especially the way he was headhunting Nate. \n\n", 
        "You do know Conor walks around at around 170 come fight night.\nThis shit about Conor carrying more weight is ludicrous. Secondly Conor's boxing didn't look that great. He fell to the same issues any fighter does when going against a south paw. ", 
        "Judging by the way Conor looked vs Aldo, either he wasn't taking this fight seriously or he doesn't gain 25lbs in 24hours.  I believe the latter. ", 
        "You clearly don't know what you are talking about. He states he walks around at 170lbs. After weigh ins he probably rehydrates up to about 165-170, his weight on Friday. This is pretty basic for MMA (http://mmajunkie.com/2015/11/24-hours-after-weighing-145-pounds-ufcs-diego-sanchez-now-at-171-2). Conor got smashed because Nate was the better fighter. Conor showed that he is a 1 dimensional power puncher who relies on his reach and south paw style.", 
        "He said himself he had to cut some weight.  You don't know what you're talking about.  Why is it even hard to believe he walks around over 170?", 
        "haha you repeated my argument. You are the one that's saying Conor doesn't walk around at 170lbs. The fact is there isn't an excuse as to why Conor got beat other than Nate is just a better fighter.", 
        "You still don't know what you're talking about. ", 
        "I know exactly what i am talking about. But cool story and nice talk.", 
        "They were both roughly 170 lb without cutting any water weight. Both would've had the same weight cut (save a few lb)", 
        "Nate has trouble cutting to 155.  It would be much easier for Conor.  Nates just a bigger guy who is better adapted to fight at that weight. \n\nEdit: Nate had to cut weight to make 170, while Conor couldn't get there.  Weight-cutting gives you an advantage up to a point, and the amount Nate cut was well within the limits of advantage. ", 
        "Nate didn't look dehydrated at all during weigh ins", 
        "He wasn't.  He didn't have to cut nearly as much water weight as he does going to 155. ", 
        "So what does this make Aldo? And everyone else Conor has beaten, I can't think of a fighter more polarizing than Conor, it's hilarious how you all jump to shit on him or swing off his nutts, the balanced discussions are few and far between.\n\nPeople are already forgetting that he beat arguably the top P4P fighter at the time in Aldo and he had the guts to move up a weight class to fight RDA (who I thought would win, but have lost a lot of respect for since Conor lost, he should have kept quiet). BJ is the only other fighter I can think of who had the balls to do what Conor did and nobody was shitting on him when he lost.", 
        "BJ did not have the most annoying fans though. I feel most wanted to see Mcgregor lose so his fans would stop thinking he is a god", 
        "I'm not trying to shit on him because he lost, Conor is a great fighter.  I would have made this video even if he won.", 
        "I've no issue with the video, it's funny (I thought it was just another look at how stupid Conor looks in retrospect, but you got me with Simon and Garfunkel), it's the general vibe of this sub at the minute, would have been equally unbearable had Conor won. ", 
        "you need a tissue breh?", 
        "I bet a lot of money on Nate, very happy that he won and hope the UFC give him a good push off the back of this. Just getting fed up with the vitriol in this sub, the comments about Conor being exposed and being finished, based off one loss after having beaten one of the best fighters to have graced the UFC. It seems you have to love or hate Conor, there's absolutely no in-between.", 
        "always thought he was too big for a featherweight and LW was more natural for him... if anything else, give props to the guys for being p4p best weight cutter", 
        "For featherweight he falls into the same category as most champions, taller and longer than the average of the rest of the division. He's could definitely do well at LW, he should never fight at WW again though. \nPeople who say he's been exposed are insane though, what has he been exposed as? \n\nThe UFC brass could do something incredible with this though, let Conor defend against Aldo which I think he'll win again, set the fight up against RDA (assuming he's still champion), if Conor wins (big if) set up the rematch with Nate at lightweight. ", 
        "So glad we have a non-politically-correct fighter with the belt again...  After all, this is entertainment! ;)", 
        "The belt didn't change hands? Or are you talking about Conor?", 
        "Oh shit, my bad... I assumed the belt was on the line. \n\nIt wasn't a title-shot, given the 10-day notice???\n\nFuck me...\n\nEDIT: Well, I hope they give this kid a shot... He deserves it (Diaz).", 
        "It wasn't a title shot because it was 2 weight classes higher than the weight class Conor is champ of. Conor is the 145 champ. This fight was at 170. Diaz won't fight him for that title cause Diaz can't make 145. ", 
        "Are we going to see a re-match for the belt soon?", 
        "Between Diaz and Conor? No. Diaz can't make that weight class, or at least he never has before.", 
        "Which one did he just beat his ass in?", 
        "170 pounds. Conor is the champ of 145 pounds.", 
        "It's all making sense now... Thanks for the clarification, gentlemen. ", 
        "He's lying, nate is a 155 fighter. ", 
        "155", 
        "it was 170", 
        "Keep telling yourself that. ", 
        "Conor has the 145 lbs belt.  Nate fights at 155, and maybe 170, too. ", 
        "My Dad can beat up your Dad.", 
        "Hahaha - they doing my boy Conor dirty... dang. He's still a great champion though.", 
        "Poor Conor? Poor yourself. Conor is rich. ", 
        "Yeah but he doesn't have as much reddit karma as me", 
        "jon jones declined the chael sonnen fight on short notice, MCGREGOR fought chad mendes on 2weeks notice, fought nate diaz on 11 days notice and gambled while he could easily cut down to 145 pounds and beat those smaller guys, but no, he said fuck it, i will fight anybody from 145 to 170. you have to respect that and for all those saying he is cocky and stuff, he became a superstar in 3 years. in his first fight he \"begged\" dana for 60G's. CONOR IS LEGIT. the first round nate didnt do shit and was about to get fucked up and i was rooting for nate, because i always root for the underdog. im happy for nate. i hope he made millions.", 
        "Nate didn't do shit? I think Conor has 28 significant strikes Diaz had 23. Nowhere did Diaz come close to getting fucked up. ", 
        "Agreed until you said first round Nate didn't do shit. First round he did enough to have McGregor guessing and worried.", 
        "yeah my bad", 
        "I don't think there is a fan base any more brutal than we.  Soccer hooligans don't count, as that fire is not aimed at the athlete.\n\nEdit: I guess I was mistaken.", 
        "Have you been on /r/Soccer in a postgame thread?", 
        "I wonder if the footballers killed by fans agree with the (wrong) assertion that the fire isn't aimed their way.", 
        "That's the best job I've ever seen of a guy saving the situation from being awkward and instead making it funny.", 
        "literally the only way to play that shit off", 
        "I was always partial to [Lebron](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iH-oPfBate4) chasing his teammate down.", 
        "https://i.imgur.com/rTST6h.jpg", 
        "I WILL NOT BE IGNORED", 
        "No. This is http://gfycat.com/OpenZestyIbizanhound", 
        "True sadness", 
        "I can literally hear it - \"Hello darkness my old friend\"", 
        "He just dug into it. We could all learn something.", 
        "lol that was the equivalent of a submission win at 4:59 RD5", 
        "Hey leave Holly Holm out of this! \n\nEdit: That the best you can do bitches?? ", 
        "???    \n    \nCheck the main fight at [UFC 186](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UFC_186). He did a submission at 4:59 on the last round.", 
        "That was my first time watching him fight. His speed impressed the fuck out of me then pulls out a sub win and established a record that's nearly impossible to tie and impossible to break. That was so much fun ", 
        "He probably planned it. Best pound for pound fighter for sure. Also a very good gamer IIRC.", 
        "Edgar broke the previous record in November the year before with a 4:56 submission over Swanson. Then Mighty Mouse says fuck that and made the record pretty much unbreakable. \n\nA strange record to have, but he'll probably be on the books to retain it for the rest of the company history. Best someone could hope to do would be to tie it I'd imagine. ", 
        "Raquel Pennington put Ashlee Evans-Smith to sleep at 4:59 in the first round via bulldog choke. I know it's a different round but it could be possible to tie DJ's record.\n\nhttp://i.imgur.com/ohhWdIw.gifv", 
        "What a beautiful choke. ", 
        "What is it with female fighters not tapping out to chokes?\n\nHolm didn't tap,\nAngela Hill didn't tap,\nEvans-Smith didn't tap.\n\nI know there are guys who have been put to sleep too, but these are all within the last year and a half, and there are far less WMMA fights than there are mens fights.", 
        "Women had better elongation and pain resistance, that could be", 
        "To be real with you, men are pussies. Women are way way tougher. Just look at womens soccer, you don't see them diving and crying wolf. I trained with a lot of women fighters.. And they just take pain way better. The whole childbirth thing is no myth. ", 
        "I loved watching women's World Cup because of that reason lol amongst others too", 
        "I've trained with a few women.  They're tough as balls, and stubborn and sometimes borderline dumb with how unwilling to quit they are.  \n\nThere may well be a skill gap between men and women, and maybe some inherent differences that matter in the cage, but I'll be damned if I'm ever going to fight a woman.  They mental.", 
        "In BJJ there seem to be two types of new girls who train- girls who need to be absolutely babied and complain about everyone going too hard , and girls who get after it, who are flying all over the place,usually get injured but don't give a fuck. ", 
        "Diving in soccer is faked though.", 
        "Most studies I've seen show that men have higher pain thresholds than women. Diving is soccer is nothing to do with not being tough, they're liars not weaklings.", 
        "i doubt you've seen any study tbh", 
        "First three hits searching \"men women pain threshold study\":\n\nhttp://abcnews.go.com/Technology/story?id=97662\n\nhttp://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=51160\n\nhttp://news.psu.edu/story/141291/2008/11/10/research/probing-question-do-women-have-higher-pain-threshold-men", 
        "3 random articles with exactly ZERO actual studies mentioned.", 
        "http://journals.lww.com/psychosomaticmedicine/Abstract/1972/11000/Pain_Tolerance__Differences_According_to_Age,_Sex.7.aspx\n\nhttp://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304395997001991\n\nHappy yet? ", 
        "Everyone tapped to Ronda tho", 
        "Every time I've seen a girl fight outside of the ring, they are way more viscous than most guy fights. It's in their genes or something.", 
        "Girl fights have no chill, seen plenty of guy fights and the amount of \"low blows\" are few and far in between, but girl fights? They find a weakness and fucking attack", 
        "Women have bigger egos than men. You ever see women argue? They hold grudges 30 years later lol ", 
        "every now and again in /r/streetfights you see dudes slug it out and then shake hands after and give each other respect. i've never once seen women do that, and i've been actively seeking out street fight videos for my entire internet career. women will beat each other until their weaves fall out then go on FB or IG and try to build up the rematch next week. ", 
        "I think it's because there isn't any real long lasting harm that comes from not tapping to a choke. It's more of an unpleasantness than anything else.", 
        "You're joking, right? ", 
        "I've always been curious about this. Is being choked out connected to any reported long term damage like concussions are connected to pugilistic dementia?", 
        "He's right? Unless you're choking an unconcious person for like a minute plus there is way way way wayyyyyyy less harm in choking someone that as opposed to KOing someone. Can't count the amounts of times i've seen someone get choked out. Been choked out multiple times myself, have choked out loads of people. The worst i've seen is people shit themselves, or have the shakes.", 
        "The bulldog choke is a blood choke. Spend more than 2 seconds fighting it and you could be out.", 
        "Evans-Smith not tapping probably has to do with the fact that if she had stayed conscious for 1 second more she would have been saved by the bell.\n\nI don't know if there's more female fighters not tapping to chokes though. I'll try and run the numbers to see. Jones-Machida is the first example of fighter not tapping to a choke that comes to my mind. \n\nThe last 3 technical submissions in the UFC before Holm were all men\n\n* [Tony Martin vs. Felipe Olivieri](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UFC_on_Fox:_Johnson_vs._Bader)\n\n* [Vicente Luque\tvs.\tHayder Hassan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UFC_on_Fox:_dos_Anjos_vs._Cerrone_2)\n\n* [Danny Roberts\tvs.\tNathan Coy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UFC_Fight_Night:_Namajunas_vs._VanZant)", 
        "At least in Evans-Smith's case, it makes more sense to take that gamble. Had to have known time was short, and the worst thing that happens is you pass out. Not like with a joint lock, where you could never be the same again if you don't tap fast enough.", 
        "You think men are the stubborn ones? hah.", 
        "Don't forget Meisha getting her arm destroyed. Twice.", 
        "Less violent chokes maybe, don't see many women crank on sleeper holds the way men does, they mostly sink them in and hold them which is less uncomfortable.", 
        "In my experience tere have been 2 times I got choked out and it wasn't because I was trying to tough it out. It just happened much sooner than I realised. I got Rear naked choked and thought I could maybe wrestle out of it in a second or two long but then I woke up. \n\nWasn't trying to be tought or ignore safety I just didn't feel I was going out. ", 
        "Yea, and you're less likely to realise you're going out if the choke is not that strong", 
        "There also levels to it. If I don't quite have it there, but throw a little bit of crank into it you'll think \"this is fine, I can fight still\" even though you've already lost a bit of higher brain function. If I then settle down a little deeper into it and crank you may not even feel it.", 
        "Had a friend come up behind me and pretend to choke me. I tried to throw him over my back... Put myself out cold. Woke up extremely confused", 
        "it blocks a lot of blood flow to your brain, you think you can just hold your breath but you don't feel the lack of blood, so you pass out even if you can hold your breath for much longer than that.", 
        "Well Holm said in post fight presser that she thought she did tap, which I can believe because I've been there. Sometimes you try fighting until the last second then you tap and next thing you know you're waking up on the mat being told you never actually tapped. ", 
        "I've been put out four to six times depending on how strict we're being on the definition of \"out\", and I had decided to tap two to four of those times, haha. I honestly think there is a bit of your thinking brain that stays on for a split second longer than your hands keep working.", 
        "I swear she actually does try to tap near the end of the flip attempt.", 
        "dont forget the beast Angela Magana never taps even when her spines being shattered", 
        "is this true?? Can i get a source on that?", 
        "She did us a favor with that one.", 
        "For people unfamiliar with this incident I also want to point out that this happened in practice and not a fight. ", 
        "I question what kind of training partner doesn't stop, even if their partner is stubborn.", 
        "I hope that I'd have the presence of mind to stop if I was doing a joint lock... For a choke there's not really much permanent damage if you let go as soon as they're out.\n\nLuckily I haven't encountered anyone unwilling to tap yet in judo/BJJ but if I did, I'd probably try to avoid them afterward. An unwillingness to tap shows that you have both an ego problem and a lack of respect for your partner, IMO.", 
        "To be fair if your training partner was Angela Magana, would you really be able to make yourself stop?", 
        "Personally, if I'm twistering you, I have no idea how much you can take before you tap or I hear popping.  Some people twist lots, some people don't twist at all.", 
        "Sometimes you don't know your partners flexibility or whether you have the right angle. At some point though I usually start asking them repeatedly if they're ok", 
        "I run into the same issue.  Some people have insane flexibility and I will have them in a position where most people would tap.  At that point I generally start asking them how in danger the limb is as I slowly go deeper and deeper.  One time I actually had someone tell me, \"im totally fine, no pressure\" *as their elbow popped*.  I don't go for keylocks on them anymore.  RNC's are probably the worst for me from this regard, because I can't see their face, and so I try to stay super aware of if they have started to go limp.  ", 
        "My trick for RNCs is just to be so shitty at them that almost nobody is actually in danger of having it locked in on them.", 
        "Don't keylocks dislocate the shoulder and not the elbow", 
        "Yep. I've had plenty of partners who couldn't escape my leg locks and I just let go because fuck it what's the point of breaking their leg. ", 
        "Pussy", 
        "I wish I trained with more people like you. My MMA and BJJ classes are full of dimwits.\n\n\"Oh hey you're preparing for a fight? let me just show how badass I am to everyone even though no one cares\".\n\nThe annoying thing is, unless i'm with another guy who actually wants to fight amateur/professionally, i'm always going 30%, sometimes I get some guys going 100% and I STILL go 30% just to show them how unproper what they are doing is.\n\nSome day i'll fucking snap and when they do their shitty hip movement and gift me their face, i'll knee them on the face with full force so they just quit and stop bothering the fuck out of me.\n\nWorst thing is the stupid \"make or break\" mentality going around, tellign someone to go lighter because we're not hard sparring will get callouts from some dimwits calling me pussy or whatever, the funny thing is, aside of a few people, maybe like 10 in the whole gym, most of the people training there would most definitely lose to me in a fight because they go to 2 classes a week and i'm there 4 hours a day, every day except sundays.\n\nFucking assholes.", 
        "We need this more in MMA. Why hurt your teammate, it is all around lose for everyone. You lose a training partner and if they are up for a fight they also lose that.", 
        "Properly cared for, a quality training partner should last a lifetime.", 
        "Good job.  You're doing it right.", 
        "Mighty Mouse is great, I wish he could get the respect he deserves.", 
        "i like mighty mouse but if he had a personality and actually tried to get some fans he would do well in numbers ", 
        "He's content on where's he at. He doesn't care about all that he just wants to have fun ", 
        "Ie: act like an obnoxious loud mouth?", 
        "So you mean act like Mcgregor?", 
        "He's actually really personable on his stream. Always interacting with fans and has an awesome Pride lady impression.   ", 
        "Most people probably think they could kick his ass so they don't respect him as a fighter. TBH it's probably true to an extent, I don't see MM taking out a 250 lb jock in bar fight. ", 
        "I hear stuff like this all the time but I didn't actually believe it. Are people really foolish enough to think they could beat up a professional fighter just because he's short? How do you think this hyperthetical jock takes out DJ?  ", 
        "Nothing that DJ could do would make a difference in a street fight against an opponent with that much of a size advantage. This isn't a BJJ match. Watch Bobb Sapp versus Ernesto Hoost. ", 
        "Yeah but Bob Sapp is a pro fighter. Not a very good one but he at least has some training of how to use his size as an advantage. Plus he was roided out of his mind. I'm sure DJ has sparred with guys way heavier than him and has some experience in fighting larger guys. My money would be on DJ all day.", 
        "He does have the respect he deserves.", 
        "No way. He might be having the best run out out of any professional mma fighter right now and no one is really talking about it", 
        "Well him being talked about and his popularity are different compared to being respected in the sport.  ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "If everyone here loves him so much BUY HIS FIGHTS", 
        "Yeah me too, im pretty sure its the division he's in though, cant really relate with them so it is less fun to watch... i dont know why i feel like that but i do. Still love the little fella", 
        "you're absolutely right. It's because he weighs less than most MMA fans. ", 
        "last week i had 3 guys in my office arguing they could beat up MM because they had 100 lbs on him. all typical fat guys who probably couldn't beat a flight of stairs to the 3rd floor, but those types think they can just grab a smaller man and crush him or some shit. ", 
        "Probably sarcasm ^ but i think it is kind of true, obviously it isnt the only reason and the weight class is seriously lacking. but i just dont enjoy watching the weight class, i cant relate to it and the fighters in it arent good compared to MM, just boring IMO.", 
        "nope, not sarcasm. I think what I said is pretty much true. MM weighs less than most MMA fans and people are not intimidated by that at all. Smart MMA fans know how good, strong, and athletic he is, but there aren't many smart MMA fans out there. ~97% of the PPV buys are people who would much rather see guys over 5'6\" duke it out in the octagon. ", 
        "I have zero desire to watch a 5'2 man fight another 5'2 man. There is just no appeal to me.", 
        "That's your loss. ", 
        "This is true. I will however tune in to watch Mighty Mouse thrash anybody in his weight class brave and or stupid enough to get in the ring with him. Dude is an amazing fighter.", 
        "nah, its the same with Floyd Mayweather but he's massive.\n\nDJ just doesn't know how to promote himself.", 
        "Shit, thats a great point. Floyd's the exception because of his extremely flashy lifestyle and his boxing record. ", 
        "Twitch is the best thing to ever happen to his popularity, so glad he is embracing it and the users are embracing him back", 
        "The best story I have heard about him is a bouncer wouldn't let him into a club and he was stuck arguing who he was.", 
        "I've no doubt that he will eventually, I just wish it would happen sooner, he's long overdue.\n", 
        "He is respected from those who matter. Sadly that isn't going to make him more money but he is still doing well from what I can see. ", 
        "Those who matter are the filthy casuals who buy his ppvs", 
        "You didn't comprehend what I said. ", 
        "I'm very happy that he's doing well with streaming.", 
        "You should link it if it's allowed here.", 
        "Really nice to see him find something where he can really connect to fans, I think the streaming will also spill over into his fighting popularity. How many people usually watch his stream on average? ", 
        "Dude is living the life that I imagine many of us wish we could. Pro athlete by day, gamer by night, profiting from both. ", 
        "It would be perfect if you didn't have to get punched in the face. ", 
        "The fucking dream. I'd love that. Even if you just have an hour or two set aside to stream every other day or so, your fans would fucking eat it up. Train and stream, train and stream. ", 
        "So does he just announce when he's going online? ", 
        "If you follow him on Twitch, it will send you an email notification when he goes online. He probably tweets when he goes online too", 
        "Does he play anything other than Destiny right now? That's all I ever see him playing when I happen to catch him online. ", 
        "Sometimes he plays Dark Souls. He just got a copy of the Division so he'll probably play that too. Not to mention he had that series where he faced of with Rampage in Rainbow Six Seige.", 
        "and playing UFC 2 tonight", 
        "Cool. Thanks.", 
        "Pro athlete by day, gamer by night, All day!", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers", 
        "and his wife is the perfect balance of hot/cute. ", 
        "i see u", 
        "Idk, i like it better this way. More relatable.", 
        "Way more relatable this way. I feel like I could be friends with MM.", 
        "Which is why I'd like to see him sell out arenas. My Opinion of him has changed 180 in the past year after hearing him on Rogan, then watching him regularly on Twitch. The guy is way more down to earth relatable and fun to watch after getting to know him. ", 
        "cool mighty mouse story\n\ni live in washington and i was volunteering in 2011 as security for my gym's fight card, i was working the back door since i followed mma quite closely and would know who to let in (dennis hallman being the most notable).\n\ni saw mighty mouse walking around handing out flyers, this was a few weeks after he had beat miguel torres. i just said hi to him as he was walking by and surprisingly he struck up a conversation with me, even though he was obviously there to promote whatever was on the flyers.\n\nhe asked me about my training and was extremely nice the whole time, was 5 years ago i dont remember it too well. i fanboyed a bit because i had won money off of his miguel torres fight (i was the only one in the gym who bet on mighty mouse) my phone was dead so i didn't get a picture. we only talked for a few minuted and then carried on.\n\nout of all the fighters i've met, him and mark munoz were by far the most friendly (i have met both multiple times now)", 
        "bro you and i both know he should've lost that Torres fight. love MM but torres was super active off his back. ", 
        "Munoz seems like a really chill dude to hang out with", 
        "Watch his twitch channel. He's just one of the guys.\n", 
        "/u/joelauzondotcom please <3?", 
        "Just picture saying that to his face. Weird ", 
        "I loved the story of the people on twitch who carried him through his run through of the final raid in Destiny, they talked about how he was a quick learner and etc. Wish I could find it for you all. :(\n\nEDIT: [Found it!](https://www.reddit.com/r/DestinyTheGame/comments/3qxo5p/we_helped_a_ufc_champion_tonight/)", 
        "He's a genius.  Watch him in his corner compared to every other fighter. He's focused on his coach, he's understanding and analyzing everything he says. \n\nMost guys go out there and rely on their instincts and training, DJ's brain is going 100mph. That's why he's so good. ", 
        "This is why we need a DJ vs Cruz 2. Both of these guys are super smart and the fight is gonna be a freaking chess game", 
        "Haven't seen it in years, but i remember that fight as DJ even at such a raw stage in his career was getting the better of Dom in outside exchanges until they locked up. the size difference is just way too big between those two. DJ was able to time Dom's bread and butter, The dart, follow him, and land shots as dom tried to exit at an angle. he also got dom backed into the cage a lot. he just couldn't avoid the clinch with that pressuring style and dom would muscle him whenever the started wrestling. ", 
        "Definitely! Two of my favourite fighters. ", 
        "Dj cruz ufc 200. Im going to sacrifice live poultry to the dark gods of MMA to make this happen.", 
        "[**https://www.twitch.tv/mightymouseufc125**](https://www.twitch.tv/mightymouseufc125) \n\nIn case anyone didn't feel like finding it on their own. ", 
        "I have been watching him for a while now. Back before the Reebok deal he was sponsored by Xbox. They hooked him up so well that he never needed other sponsors on his shorts or banner that was hung by his corner before the fight. I always thought that was really cool.", 
        "When he was on JRE Joe asked him about the Reebok deal. MM said that there were often times Microsoft would tell him they have nothing for him. And he said that he likes the consistency of knowing Reebok will actually pay him. Might be exaggeration on MM's part tho.", 
        "RUN THE JEWELS MM ", 
        "That RTJ shirt is dope", 
        "anyone know where i can that particular shirt? ", 
        "I dunno any of this stuff I saw it in /r/all but I saw that run the jewels shirt ", 
        "RUN THEM JEWELS FAST", 
        "FUCK THE SLOW-MO", 
        "I PUT THE PISTOL ON THAT POODLE AND I SHOT THAT BITCH", 
        "MM wasn't about to become a punchline on /r/lefthanging.", 
        "Someone just posted it", 
        "But..  But he wasn't left hanging", 
        "I see it as a doctor declaring someone dead for a few minutes and then resuscitating them. ", 
        "Pretty good physical metaphor for Mighty Mouse for his entire career.... it could have only been more spot on if Woodley straight walked away without shaking his hand.", 
        "MM has great personality. I think he's really funny. Shame a lot of people aren't fussed about him or his division. ", 
        "People are always saying \"lol of course he doesn't sell PPV, he's boring\" but imo he's one of the coolest, funniest and smartest fighters around right now. It's a shame a load of \"fans\" are only interested in fighters who talk shit and post pictures of sport cars on social media.", 
        "I have literally been watching UFC since UFC 1. I consider myself a hardcore 'fan'. I fucking hate MM. The amount of him that is shoved down my throat on this sub is too much. \n\nI want him to lose, lose again and then lose again. THEN, and only then do I expect you people to shut the fuck up about him. \n\nI don't care about a fighters personality when I find them boring, whiny, insignificant, and over-hyped.", 
        "Username checks out. ", 
        "Well....damn. That's one way to look at it I guess.", 
        "Yeah well I've been watching since UFC 0 and that somehow makes me the authority.", 
        "I don't think that has anything to do with it. The previous statement I was replying to was inferring that only a casual fan would not like MM. I was only stating how long I had been watching to dispel any illusion of simply being a casual fan, before I spouted my opinion. ", 
        "Well I've watched those Gracie challenge videos on VHS!", 
        "You find MM is talked about too much on this sub? How do you feel about Conor/Ronda/ Diaz bros?", 
        "Since I enjoy watching them fight, unlike MM, it doesn't bother me. All this feel good, gushy shit on MM though... hard to handle. ", 
        "whatever nerd", 
        "Dork!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Seriously, the UFC has sufficient brand presence that they would put on an event with a bunch of no names and still pull 50-70K buys.\n\n100k is dismal when the average is closer to 300k", 
        "Does he headline a show? ", 
        "Well yeah, it's a valid point that his PPV sales aren't literally 0. But the sales of events he headlines are disproportionately lower than other champions, especially champions as dominant as he has been (albeit in a pretty thin division).", 
        "I've heard this too, and man I find it bizarre.  His fights are insane.  He's a tiny dynamo of activity, threatening with basically everything, start to finish.  \n\nI love me some MM.", 
        "I love how he takes risks in his striking, which for a dominant champion is pretty rare. He could comfortably win by playing it safe but instead he throws well-timed spinning back elbows and stuff like that", 
        "FlyW is the smallest division. There are like 20 active fighters at any one time.\n\nIt's the smallest by FAAAAAAAAAAR.\n\nIt's a shame i agree, but it's not surprising.", 
        ">It's the *smallest* by FAAAAAAAAAAR.\n\n\nHmmm... Who woulda thought.\n", 
        "Schaub-heavy middle sentence.", 
        "100%", 
        "For sure upvote this guy.", 
        "Forrealzzz", 
        "What! WHAT!", 
        "Coupla lounge lizards ", 
        "Bro, he is a MOTHER fucker.", 
        "One hundred percent.", 
        "Oviously", 
        "Look at you all, bunch of one-two cutie pies.", 
        "MRW when I'm in a gif that makes it to the top of r/MMA and I don't even notice it's happening.", 
        "Are you the white guy with the Run the Jewels shirt on?", 
        "Yeah that's me.", 
        "hell yeah dope shirt", 
        "Game's looking really good! I'm looking forward to actually trying it because you guys have done a solid job with how the ground transitions look. I just hope it handles technically as well as it looks.", 
        "Thanks man.", 
        "I like your taste. ", 
        "Holy fuck it really is", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/9Dhj7Sy.gifv", 
        "If they had hired Mighty Mouse to go around and play with the game with fighters/promote the game, not only would we probably avoid the awkward conversations between the dev and the fighters, Mighty Mouse could have got ALOT of fans.", 
        "Can someone please make a gif of only MM's facial expressions?", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/9Dhj7Sy.gifv", 
        "lol this is great, hope this catches on as a reaction gif when someone says something stupid.", 
        "[Here ya go, bud.](http://gifyu.com/images/16f1a2.gif)", 
        "He looks like he's reluctantly jacking someone off. ", 
        "It looks like he's deciding whether or not he's enjoying giving a handjob.", 
        "Thanks for delivering!", 
        "i watched all the fighters play mighty mouse on that game and bruce buffer was actually way better than all of them haha", 
        "is their vod of this?", 
        "think so on twitch. someone link us", 
        "[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRRqJjorAKM)", 
        "Outside of Mighty Mouse and the producer the best were definitely Buffer and Rothwell", 
        "Can easily picture Rothwell gaming and yelling to his mum to bring him snacks", 
        "MOM! POTTY!", 
        "UFC 200 Mouse vs Woodley ", 
        "He turned an awkward situation into a funny one. Well played MM, well played. ", 
        "The laws of physics state you can't leave an African American hanging. You can't. There's not a single African American that stretched his hand for a hand shake and didn't get it shaken, in all of History.\n\nedit: probably bad choice of words lol", 
        "/r/nocontext ", 
        "wtf", 
        "Sorry, I realised after I posted it. It is what it is.", 
        "tagged as racist", 
        "Haha I didn't even get the negative connotation until after I read the \"wtf\". Then I read it again looking for something wrong and I was like \"Oh yes... yes I see.\"", 
        "lol np, I had so many things going through my head reading that, wtf was the only thing that could escape coherently. ", 
        "What about non-African-American black people? ", 
        "They don't apply, fuck em'. ", 
        "fuck you too!", 
        "Thanks. In this fuck based economy we really need to spread the fucks. \n\n", 
        "What is on the shirt on the guy in the middle?", 
        "It looks like a man bent over farting out a bulldog.", 
        "The logo for the rap group Run the Jewels.", 
        "I have that same shirt in red. It's my favorite shirt.", 
        "Thank you", 
        "The fact that this conversation took place because of my shirt warms my heart. I'm really having an impact!!!", 
        "Give them a listen. Some of the absolute best rap music being made today.", 
        "First album is easily 10/10. Second is pretty good too. ", 
        "second album is better. so much better.", 
        "How high is Woodley here? ", 
        "Came here for this. His eyes are at 22% openness. ", 
        "Yes.", 
        "No homo, but Woodley has a huge butt...", 
        "It's where the blacksplosiveness comes from.", 
        "He has a big ol' buffalo butt!", 
        "He's got a set of honeydews on him for sure.", 
        "A couple 1 2 Melon..(pause for brain trauma) ...dews.", 
        "He probably just wrecked Woodley in UFC 2. Woodley was upset because he was mashing all the buttons Eddie Gordo style and still got beat. ", 
        "You could tell Johnson was about to beat Woodleys ass and prove one and for all size doesn't matter. ", 
        "The initial face he makes is so funny. I don't think I've seen a person recover from a handshake snub so well. ", 
        "Never give up. Never surrender. Never back down.", 
        "Can't wait to see him go against an Olympic Gold Medal Wrestler...", 
        "He'll be fine. I don't think he will finish him but MM is gonna get 17 defenses and then go up to 135.", 
        "Where is this from?\n", 
        "Tacoma champions!", 
        "Coming from /r/all, this was not what I expected at all.", 
        "Man I wish more people appreciated the technical aspects of the sport.  This guy is amazing, and a great guy.\n\nIt would be like people not liking Steph Curry because he doesn't dunk.  The guy is that good, and an even better guy.", 
        "If the UFC wants his popularity to increase they should hook um up and mention during his next match in April that he plays on Twitch. ", 
        "I love this guy", 
        "Yo what did USADA do to Woodley", 
        "this is what you should always do. ", 
        "He may have a career in comedy coming up. His expressions were priceless.", 
        "I'm sorry for asking but are these youtubers? \n\nAnd what are some good ufc/mma(the games) youtubers.", 
        "he should go up to light weight and fight Diaz too !", 
        "That's a nice Meow the Jewels shirt", 
        "i love this guy. true fucking talent of the sport", 
        "Real quick, why is the launch stream 2 weeks out?", 
        "Probably because it was the last major UFC event before the game released, and they wanted to tie it together.", 
        "Yeah I guess that makes sense, plus you can get it now through EA Access", 
        "\"There's...something wrong here. My hand is outstretched, it's doing the shakey motion, but it feels...empty somehow...\"", 
        "RESPECT ME!", 
        "Holy shit, that dude looks like Dwayne Johnson and Kevin Harts lovechild", 
        "Proof that DJ has cardio for days. ", 
        "That seals the deal.  I'm a fan.", 
        "Well played MM, well played.", 
        "M I G H T Y M O U S E   \nI   \nN  \nI", 
        "Anyone else think this would be the cartoon flying mouse? Or just me ?", 
        "Usually we don't get much out of corner cams between rounds.\n\nBut have you watched Mighty Mouse's corner cams?\n\nHoly shit, that guy is absorbing knowledge and coaching like a sponge. \"Ok. Yes. Ok. Ok. Yes sir. Ok.\" \n\nMeanwhile other guys only want water, and to know if they won or lost the last round.\n\n\n", 
        "Woodley lookin stoned AF", 
        "Mighty mouse kinda looks like a mini version of The Rock", 
        "Run The Jewels.", 
        "Woodley looks high as fuck.", 
        "His streams are the best, he always comes on at the weirdest times though.\n\nfor the curious: twitch.tv/mightymouseufc125", 
        "first to show up at a press conference even though he was never asked a question\n\n\nwhat an amazing person", 
        "JDS wasn't asked a question at the press conference either and he was on the stage first.", 
        "And receiving the same amount of attention he gets from everyone else", 
        "He handled it really well. ", 
        "Ah Mr Hayes. Good dude.", 
        "I've seen 2 posts of this dude and I love him.", 
        "That's how you handle an awkward handshake!", 
        "When that RTJ graphic is set in silhouette, it just looks like a hand pointing at a dick poking out of a portal.", 
        "Wow true belief in himself ", 
        "As if I needed another reason to love the guy. Might(y) be one of my favourite people.\n\n\n\n", 
        "It's interesting that the two fighters whose names get thrown around the most in terms of P4P greatness at the moment are at opposite ends of the height spectrum. I wonder whether this might be more than a coincidence. Most people are of averagish height and would compete in the intermediate weight classes against a potentially larger pool of talent where it's harder to sustain dominance. Having said that Jon and MM are obviously great fighters.", 
        "Sick conditioning", 
        "Fuck tyron woodley!", 
        "I can't think of a better way to play off being left hanging like that.", 
        "Run em!", 
        "run the jewels fast", 
        "That's a champ right there!! >o<", 
        "This has nothing to do with the Diaz brothers. Why should anyone care? ", 
        "\"No personality. Boring. Unmarketable.\" -Dana White, probably ", 
        "Woodley look high as fuck. ", 
        "Think of a creative title. Receive a lot of karma. It's that easy people. ", 
        "I want that RTJ t-shirt.\n\n", 
        "I need that RTJ shirt!!", 
        "Goddamn, Tyron Woodley looks STONED!", 
        "that ass though, so nice!", 
        "not sure if he was champion   or still is", 
        "Well he is hard to see", 
        "who do you got for P4P most adorable? Mighty Mouse or Joanna Champion(of our hearts)", 
        "pillow hands johnson", 
        "Always overlooked. As it should be.\n\nCan we get less of mighty mouse on this fucking sub please?", 
        "Please think before you comment in this thread, we have a zero tolerance policy when it comes to sexism and the like.", 
        "If that is the case, then this thread should be removed. Ronda's instagram post was sexist and should not have been reposted here. (It specifically targeted men, which is by definition sexist)", 
        "Please explain to me how this is sexist?", 
        "\"Full Definition of sexism. 1 : prejudice or discrimination based on sex; especially : discrimination against women. 2 : behavior, conditions, or attitudes that foster stereotypes of social roles based on sex.\"\n\nRonda's instagram post meets these requirements because it's expressing discrimination against men. What about women that say bad things about women? Is that ok? It's also fostering the stereotype that men are often saying negative things against women, which isn't true. As a man who doesn't express such opinions, I object to that.\n", 
        "Ha, you're really reaching there aren't you champ...\n\nIf you feel persecuted as a man by this post then you've got a lot more issues than this and should probably go and talk to someone about all the persecution you've faced as middle class male :)", 
        "I never said that I was being persecuted as a man. I said that Ronda's post is sexist, and explained why. It specifically targets men and furthers anti-male stereotypes. I'm simply stating that if there is a zero tolerance policy against sexism then it shouldn't be allowed either. \n\nSo, I'll turn it around. Since you're saying that Ronda's statements aren't sexist, what is your definition of sexism? If I called a woman a \"Do Nothing Bitch\", would that be sexist?", 
        "> So, I'll turn it around. Since you're saying that Ronda's statements aren't sexist, what is your definition of sexism? If I called a woman a \"Do Nothing Bitch\", would that be sexist?\n\nIf you're a woman then no, but if you're a dude then yes...\n\nThat analogy is terrible it like asking why its ok for a black man to call another black man the 'n' word and not ok for a white man. If I have to explain that to you then this conversation is going to go on for a long time.", 
        ">> So, I'll turn it around. Since you're saying that Ronda's statements aren't sexist, what is your definition of sexism? If I called a woman a \"Do Nothing Bitch\", would that be sexist?\n\n>If you're a woman then no, but if you're a dude then yes...\n\nCalling a woman a bitch, whether you are male or female is a sexist remark. It targets women and reinforces negative stereotypes.\n\n>That analogy is terrible it like asking why its ok for a black man to call another black man the 'n' word and not ok for a white man. If I have to explain that to you then this conversation is going to go on for a long time.\n\nYour argument is absurd. A sexist comment is a sexist comment, and a racist word is a racist word. It doesn't matter whose mouth it comes out of. Whether you consider it \"ok\" is up to you, but that doesn't change what these words mean. They reinforce negative stereotypes and demean groups of people.  \n\n\n\n", 
        "Ha, you're so delusional :)", 
        "Caitlyn Jenner is stunning and brave! SJWs everywhere.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Why is it? I read it as don't say something about women that you wouldn't say to your own mum. Basically treat all women with the same respect as you treat you mother, there's nothing wrong with that.", 
        "That's clearly not true. You allowed Ronda's Instagram post.", 
        "you pc bruh?", 
        "Nope, using my phone.", 
        "agreed\n\n\nif you are going to post something to bash all women in this thread, please stop\n\n\nif you are here to make fun of Ronda for her stupid instagram post, please continue", 
        "100% talk all the shit you want about Ronda but please don't turn it into a female bashing thread, everyone is treated equally on /r/MMA...\n\nWell, except the English, they smell like poo and stole all my castles!", 
        "can i say things about fat people? if you say no i will immediately assume that you're overweight.", 
        "Nope, I'm pretty shredded. But I do have a healthy respect for women and people in general.", 
        "can i say stuff about people who smoke ciggs and do drugs?", 
        "You can say whatever you like as long as it follows the rules.", 
        ">Well, except the English, they smell like poo and stole all my castles!\n\nYou're on steroids, go take a piss!\n", 
        "My mom would be like \"\u00bfQue es una ruanda?\"", 
        "Mine would be like \"pinche vieja que se retire ya\"", 
        "\"Te lo sico Honda\"", 
        "Mine would be like \"C'est qui exactement cette Ronda?\"", 
        "Mine would be like \"who let you back in the house?!\"\n\n:/", 
        "I'm sorry :(", 
        "I don't think my mom would understand if I told her she was a total cunt to Miesha and I hope she beats her ass.", 
        "> I don't think my mom would understand if I told her she was a total cunt to Miesha and I hope she beats her ass.\n\nHuh?\n\nThe quote is \"if you are a man who has something negative to say about women; write it down, go home and give it to your mom first.\"\n\nNot \"something negative to say about *a woman*\" but \"about *women*\" (i.e. about the gender, not an individual).\n\n\"Ronda you suck and I hope you lose again\" is not saying something about women, dinkus. That's not what the quote is about, at all. \n\nYou can maybe get away with being sexist or illiterate, but both is asking too much.", 
        "I bet everyone parties with you, bro.", 
        "It's a joke.", 
        "Don't underestimate your mom.", 
        "Yeah, I just called my mom a \"Fake ass cheap shotting fake respect fake humility bitch.\" \n\nDidn't go over too well.", 
        "Hey Mom, your body was built for fucking millionaires, you Do Nothing Bitch.", 
        "How do you like them apples now?", 
        "[This response, yikes!](http://i.imgur.com/6Gqzmgm.png)", 
        "Deserved. She just talks bullshit all the time.", 
        "I don't really think bringing up someone's family member who committed suicide is ever justified.", 
        "Only if he knows that.\n\nAnd judging from the \"if you know who he is\" means probably not.\n\nIt was an awful comment by what we know, but just kinda mean by what he knows.\n\nRemember Brazilian Bethe Correia being accused of reading Ronda's english only book and made jokes from tragic events in her life.", 
        "[I'm Done](https://gfycat.com/NippyKindLangur)", 
        "SAVAGE AF", 
        "Not savage, just pathetic.", 
        "That dude's a cunt and his response doesn't make sense.  Ronda wasn't talking shit about men, she was talking shit about misogynists.", 
        "No she was talking shit about men having negative shit to say about women, with all due respect to her my ex Tammy is a cunt. I think even Tammy knows what she's about.", 
        "Tammy 1 or 2?", 
        "Birdperson?", 
        "She means women as a whole, not particular women. Because if you have something negative to say about all women, then it would apply to your mother as well.\n\nHoly shit this sub hates Ronda and can turn anything around on her if they try hard enough.", 
        "Well, if she's truly cunty, I'm sure your mother would understand.", 
        "Didn't her father commit suicide? \n\nThat comment is pretty uncalled for, damn.", 
        "He did which is why that reply is so fucking savage. That's really fucked considering she was contemplating it after the loss herself. ", 
        "mmmyeah, I'm gonna choose to believe that poster didn't know that.", 
        "He might not have been aware of the fact. I mean Bethe wasn't. Plus the way he ends it with \"if you even know who he is\" seems to indicate that he doesn't know the story and just assumes he wasn't around.", 
        "With that said..my mother is dead too.  ", 
        "https://33.media.tumblr.com/6e71d9f490afdcc3e783e105b0fb2409/tumblr_inline_nq338e7yZp1rh1v17_500.gif", 
        "Rekt^2", 
        "Holy shit, that's brutal.", 
        "LMFAOOOOOOO", 
        "I do this every day. I don't need some corporate holiday to tell me to criticise my mum.", 
        "well thanks for nothing Ronda , now my mom is pissed at me.\n\nThis is the last time I am taking advice from a female MMA fighter", 
        "Something bad to say? Like calling them do nothing bitches?", 
        "Shots fired. well if YOU have something negative to say about women being do nothing bitches then I guess that's all good.\n\nLets not forget the comments about women who undress for the camera being a bad example.", 
        "oh snap!", 
        "great point\n\n\napparently it is okay for Ronda to trash women every day but men can't say anything", 
        "[Isn't that what Dana did?](http://fcfighter.com/post/dana-white%E2%80%99s-mom-calls-him-a-%E2%80%9Cp-%E2%80%9D-and-%E2%80%9Ctyrant%E2%80%9D-who-turned-his-back-on-his-family)", 
        "Holy shit I had no idea about this", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Ronda did specify \"women\" though and not \"a woman\". I know this sub hates Ronda but don't make her say what she didn't say.", 
        "Heh, point. I just realized that. Comment will be deleted.", 
        "Cheers for honesty.", 
        "No problem, man. I'm no fan of Rousey, but we shouldn't fabricate reasons to hate on athletes.", 
        "I don't like her either, but I try to never trash talk athletes. Just stepping into a ring is something worthy of respect, and I am appalled everytime I hear booing in a video or read internet warriors calling even a bad fighter a \"pussy\". I think being punched in the face at least once should be mandatory to some people before being able to talk about fights. Sorry, I'm not talking about you, it's not even really connected to what we were talking about, just letting this out since it's bothered me for a while.", 
        "I mean, my mom would probably just ask \"who is Ronda, and why is she a condescending bitch sometimes?\"", 
        "Alright, But I would actually do this.. My mom is a piece of shit...", 
        "Ronda is 5 levels of stupid. Totally oblivious to her hypocrisy and double standards. ", 
        "Oh my god, is comprehension that hard for you people? She isn't saying you can't criticise a particular woman, just that if you are criticizing all women (on the account of them being a woman) then you are criticizing your mother as well.", 
        ">then you are criticizing your mother as well.\n\nThis is the stupidest logic ever. I guess you can't say anything about ANY man or a woman because hey, your dad is a man and mom is a woman.", 
        "What the fuck? Did you even read my post?\n\nShe is saying, \"don't be sexist\", not \"any woman is immune from criticism\". \n\nWhat if she said, \" If you are a man and you have something negative to say about the female gender; write it down, go home, and give it to your mom\"? Then would you fucking comprehend it? Does everything have to be spoonfed to you?\n\nIf I say \"all women are dumb\" then I am saying my mother is dumb. This is what Ronda is talking about. She is not talking about if I say \"my ex is dumb.\"\n\nYou are 5 levels of stupid.", 
        "Ok white knight.\n\nYOU didn't read my post you retard. My point is it's still a stupid argument to make. Clearly when people say 'women are stupid' they don't mean LITERALLY ALL women in the WORLD. So to say 'well u just insulted your mom!!' is just fucking retarded.", 
        "Hey guy, my mom isn't a do nothing bitch", 
        "what if its a double negative meant to be a positive", 
        "Yes, because that totally invalidates whatever negative thing somebody might think about women.", 
        "Travis sure is a lucky dude. ", 
        "I fear for his babies. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Fire up Holly's legs. ", 
        "International Women's Day is the biggest crock of shit in the world. If women want to be viewed as equals, stop promoting days and events that treat you as special people.", 
        "Wow, you're really stupid.  You managed to be condescending to all women and completely avoid actually thinking about what you're saying.\n\nThe idea behind international women's day, black history month, etc. is that in day-to-day life, the achievements and history of those groups are marginalized and ignored.  There isn't an international men's day because every day is international men's day.  ", 
        "Shut up you white knight", 
        "lol", 
        "> The idea behind international women's day, black history month, etc. is that in day-to-day life, the achievements and history of those groups are marginalized and ignored. \n\nLike who? Ronda Rousey, the previously and possibly still biggest star in a predominantly male sport?\n\nRonda herself said that she gets paid the highest because she's the biggest draw. The market doesn't care about your gender. If you are a woman who has an achievement that can further technology, science or commerce, people will give you credit.\n\nEvery day is not \"international men's day\". Nobody gives a fuck about male suicide rates, male homelessness, double standards for men and women commiting the same crime, false rape accusations, etc. Women only see the most powerful and most successful men and they think everything is handed to them, but men have to go through the same dog eat dog world women go through, without the social benefit of being seen as special (seriously, look at [this] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%22Women_are_wonderful%22_effect)). I don't think we need an international men or women's day, unless we're talking about women being treated like shit in ACTUAL rape cultures in the middle east, which apparently you can't criticize anymore or you're \"islamaphobic\" and a \"bigot\".", 
        "\"The achievements of those groups are marginalized and ignored\" you've got to be fucking kidding me.", 
        "Every day isnt international mens day.\n\nTheres no mens \"we run the world\" snapchat filter the rest of the year.  Its just another way to pit the sexes against each other.\n\nPraying mantis have better gender relationships than humans do at this point.", 
        "there actually is an \"international men's day\" and there's also a \"steak and blowjob day\" but I guess that's cool yeah?", 
        "By golly there is an international mens day.  Ill check out the snapchat filters that day.\n\nSteak and blowjob day is a joke related to valentines day.  Steaks and blowjobs arent required on that day.", 
        "Just please don't tell my fianc\u00e9 that it's not required.  I need this, man.", 
        "> Praying mantis have better gender relationships than humans do at this point.\n\nsavage line", 
        "I found the MRA, theredpill is waiting for you.", 
        "Yes, because if I have an opinion you disagree with, it's \"MRA\" \"Red Pill\" \"Racism\" \"Bigot\" \"Islamaphobia\" \"Xenophobia\"...easiest way to shut down a conversation.", 
        "Red Pill. MRA. no question. but almost all of this sub is like that. bunch of too macho 4 u bullshitters.", 
        "You're right about the sub itself, but he's also right in that he hasn't really said anything to warrant you trying to dismiss him with labels. ", 
        "Well I cant be alone in recognizing their name. And further down they have proven just why they are recognized. Their rants are exactly why they can be dismissed with a label. Copypasta MRA rants devoid of knowledge or insight into their perceived grievances.", 
        "Again, how is that any argument? I'm not involved with those groups, but even if I was, how is this any kind of argument against what I said?", 
        "Keep on fighting the good fight", 
        "Honestly this year is the first time I've heard of this crock of shit day but are you actually telling me there isn't an international males day? That's fucked up.\n\nEdit: downvoting me you sexist pigs /s lol seriously whats the point in having conversations on this sub your all so fucking hostile. ", 
        "There is, but nobody ever gives a shit about it. Usually women just talk about women's issues on that day.\n\nI think both days are silly to be honest.", 
        "> Honestly this year is the first time I've heard of this crock of shit day but are you actually telling me there isn't an international males day? That's fucked up.\n\nLOL.  [That's so funny](https://www.google.com/#q=international+men%27s+day).", 
        "Hey, I upvoted you and my dad says you're cool man so it's all good. ", 
        "It's actually November 19th.", 
        "> International Women's Day is the biggest crock of shit in the world. If women want to be viewed as equals, stop promoting days and events that treat you as special people.\n\nThis is like the imbeciles who scratch their Cro-Magnon heads and wonder why there's a Black History Month and not a White History Month.\n\nOf course it will be upvoted on r/mma.", 
        "They are upvoting it because it is something Ronda agrees with.", 
        "> This is like the imbeciles who scratch their Cro-Magnon heads and wonder why there's a Black History Month and not a White History Month.\n\nIf International Women's Day was all about abolishing the Islam and Arab culture that keeps women down in the Middle East and Africa I'd say yeah sure, but it's not about that, it's about women in pants suits and women congratulating themselves for \"running the world\" while simultaneously complaining about the \"patriarchy\" even though the next President of the US could very well be a woman.\n\nYou seem to think women are special, which is not uncommon. And believe it or not, opinions like this are usually downvoted here, in my experience. Maybe MMA fans are just less sexist than you and actually see women as capable beings who don't need help.", 
        "Why is it that the people supposedly arguing for greater compassion on topics like these are always the first to jump to insults and name calling when faced with any criticism? Where is the compassion they speak of?", 
        "Reserved for people who *don't* call them imbeciles?", 
        "That was my point, these SJW think they are in the right, and everyone who disagrees is <insert insult> ", 
        "So, basically, you're saying \"those motherfuckers like to insult people\"?", 
        "Am I suppose to be mad about this or something?", 
        "User name checks out", 
        "Anyone else cringe at the misused semicolon?\n\nI don't know about you folks, but my mom's pretty chill. If I said something sensibly critical about women in general, chances are she'd probably agree.\n\nThere's a lot to critique about both genders. This type of rhetoric does nothing but infantilize women and absolve them of responsibility for their actions. You don't see people discouraging criticism of men, and there's a reason for that: we're expected to take it on board and improve ourselves.", 
        "I told my mom that I think she needs to ditch that fuckface Tarverdyan and get with a real gym and realize that she ISN'T the hottest shit in the WMMA history. ", 
        "Ronda legit needs to see a psychiatrist/psychologist. The people she hangs around, the things that she says and her general behavior calls for it. I don't like Ronda but I think she is so messed up.", 
        "I just punch them instead, like her boyfriend. ", 
        "Fuck Rousey. She's the only fighter I genuinely dislike.", 
        "Jeez, I don't get all the Rousey hate. Specially when I saw none of it when she was winning? Yeah she's not the most elegant or levelheaded person at times, but most mma fighters aren't.", 
        "I was never a fan of her. She's a bitch, lol. That simple. The way she carries herself inside and outside the octagon is frankly, gross. Talking shit to Arianny, not shaking Miesha's hand after beating her, calling Holly a \"fake bitch\"... the hate she gets shouldn't really be a surprise.", 
        "Dude, who cares about all that.. She's an entertaining great fighter. You all on about that extra drama shit.", 
        "But that doesnt matter when it comes to liking her as a person", 
        "Urm everyone?\nRespect is a huge part of martial arts, even the worst of enemies in the UFC don't wish actual harm on eachother, and if you watch people like Conor after a fight he always shake the other mans hand win or lose\n\nNot like ronda ", 
        "I can recall her doing that one time, one time does not validate this level of hate. Her not shaking Mieshas hand had to do with how Miesha behaved behind the scenes of their season of TUF, so who knows what their reasons were.", 
        "This. I saw that man trash Jose Aldo like I've never seen anyone do before, maybe Chael on Anderson but still, out of all that, BOTH of those guys respected the other and acted w/ class after the fight. Unlike Ronda. Hate to say it, but she's a textbook example of when a woman is a cunt. ", 
        "You're right. She is. I'll be tuning in when she fights to see her lose again.", 
        "Whatever floats your angry boat:)", 
        "> Specially when I saw none of it when she was winning?\n\nYou must have stayed away from any online MMA message board. ", 
        "Maybe. The downvotes are strong but I still think she's great. I feel like plenty of fighters have acted kinda like her, but because she got real big people hate her.", 
        "What is wrong with this sub? Ronda isn't saying all women are immune from criticism or that you shouldn't say anything bad about a particular woman. She is saying that if you criticize women as a whole, just because they are women, then you are criticizing your mother as well for that same issue (which she is assuming that is something you wouldn't do).\n\nFor fucks sake. If Ronda said Hitler was a bad man, half this sub would rise to his defense.", 
        "I think people find it ridiculous that someone who dates a known wife beater is talking up the defence of women. ", 
        "Alleged", 
        "Nah that dude did it. ", 
        "Great argument. You help in the Boston bomber investigation too?", 
        "There are certain truths about women generally that I would not bring up simply because they are harsh truths that do not need to be said. If some lady decides to be a cunt, there's a good chance I'll hit her with some truth that I wouldn't want my mother to hear, because my intention is not to offend my mother, or all women for that matter - just the one being a cunt. \n\nWhat mumma don't know don't hurt her. Why does Ronda want me to hurt my mum?", 
        "but thats another woman ! its confusing ! whats ronda smoking yo ! ", 
        "maybe she should get off media and non stop train until the day Meisha head kicks her to sleep. (Wouldn't that be somethin?)", 
        "Leave it to Rousey to make commemorating a day for women into a day for shaming dudes. Just say something positive and move on. On Arbor Day does she tell loggers to tally up all the trees they chop down and hand it to arborists? Does she dare British people to say shit about America on the 4th of July?", 
        "What a crock of horse shit. Look, I'm not anti Women's Day or anything like that. In fact, I think the fact that we have women's coaches in the NBA and NFL is one of the coolest fucking things in the world, same for the POSSIBILITY of having a woman president (not excited about Hilary exactly but I digress). But this blanket ass statement implying that all women are worthy of respect and admiration is just total bullshit. \n\n", 
        "As a woman I can attest that not all women are worthy of respect/admiration. That's humans in general though. I'm kind of amused that I need day to be celebrated. Every day is my day :)", 
        "I wonder what father's day will bring her", 
        "relax", 
        "Learn to laugh in the morning ", 
        "I love dark humour, what you said just wasn't funny so it came off as cunty.", 
        "Clearly you don't sweetie", 
        "or your 'joke' was poor?", 
        "Calm down sally, you're having quite a reaction", 
        "hardly", 
        "Wtf does she even mean ? No women in the entire world has no negative qualities . Has she officially lost it al? ", 
        "She is talking about people who talk negatively about women as a whole. Not specific women. As in \"Women are less intelligent\" etc. Not \"that woman is pretty dumb\". ", 
        "Oh it's only a laugh\nLike woman don't say stuff about all men being sexist\n\nUntil that stops, I'll find it funny to call all woman crazy ", 
        "It's really amazing how many people talk shit about women on this particular day. It seems to be more prevalent on sports subreddits too. Pretty pathetic.", 
        "seriously\n\n\nshame on ronda for writing an anti-men message on a day we are supposed to be talking about women and the positive things they do", 
        "Saying it's anti men is a stretch. ", 
        "Shame on Ronda? You got to have a warped view of the world if you read that as anti-men. ", 
        "she should be focusing on positive women's accomplishments instead of being a do nothing bitch", 
        "She should be? Why would we want to dictate what she does. This could be in response to something specific she read or heard recently. \n\nDo you think there is a specific way women should act and feel on Women's Day?", 
        "That wasn't anti men, but it definitely was a blanket statement. Not all women are perfect angels crafted in God's image, same for men. You earn respect through your actions as an individual, not because of your sex, skin color, job, religion, etc...", 
        "It is anti men. If she said \"opposite sex\" that would be not anti men. Also people with some jobs, skin colours, religions, sexes are clearly more successful than the others and there is nothing wrong with that. It is what it is. To look or not to look on the scoreboard is everybody's personal choice. Men are more sexist than women, but it makes perfect sense for them to be. It's ok. \n", 
        "Because women can't do anything bad, right? Is that how this works?", 
        "Dont say negative things to people with vaginas.... What about dont say bad things to people period?\nBeing a man is not a roller coaster ride. We all suffer , we all bleed, and we all fucking die.\n", 
        "\"shut up toots\"-Travis \"the preachers daughter\" browne ", 
        "Don't worry about your mom not being home, she's a do nothing bitch...I love the hubris of this kind of post when you and your mom openly don't get on that well.", 
        "What about women who has negative shit to say about other women? It's not like they tear each other down mercilessly all the time.", 
        "I think Ronda is showing us she's the Trump of the MMA world.", 
        "This thread is horrible. \n\n/r/ShitRedditSays material for days.", 
        "It's funny, but man, you really could not be more selective about that soundbite. You literally used the last 2 seconds of a 10 second excerpt.\n\n\"**I don't want *you guys* taking fights like that because *I'm coming*. Fuck that shit. Do not mess up what you've got going on *because we're coming*. We will find you, we will see you.** Do not fight out of your weight class, I hate that.\"\n", 
        "There's a difference between a new talented guy who tries to get into UFC and picks someone heavier and then is unable to fully showcase his skills because of that and Conor Mcgregor, someone who more than proved himself already. Man, hate on Conor as much you want but at least don't be so willfully ignorant.", 
        "People are acting like Conor is a Chad Mendes size FW that fought a Robbie Lawler size actual WW.", 
        "Conor fought at 168 lbs. Nate Diaz fought at 182 lbs. 14 lbs makes a big difference.", 
        "Any source that Conor fought at 168? Also Nate had no preparation and was kinda fat.", 
        "Conor said it during post-fight conference. He said he didn't make weight. He just weighed in. Also, Nate has looked worse in some of his previous fights. ", 
        "So still no source that he fought at 168, yes?", 
        "Conor's the source. ", 
        "There's a difference between weighing in at 168 and fighting at it.", 
        "I know. What's your point?", 
        "Actually nothing.  I misread your previous comment and thought you were basing his fight weight at what he weighed in at the previous day.  My mistake!", 
        "When did he say he fought at 168?", 
        "Post fight press conference.", 
        "Nick the Tooth and Matt seem to hate each other at times! ", 
        "=]", 
        "Oh Dana, what just happened to Conor?", 
        "Conor didn't weigh in for the Diaz fight at 145. he was 168 or something. ", 
        "Missed weight by 23lbs, how unprofessional", 
        "If only Conor had known that in time.", 
        "I think it's hilarious, specially after CMcG vs. Diaz and the GSP story. ", 
        "Youre taking it out of context to fit your imaginary narrative.", 
        "It's not my fault if you can recognise humour, fucking boneheads", 
        "Dana stop it", 
        "Sponsored by the Reebok deal", 
        "I have no idea where I'm supposed to be looking.", 
        "Cage-side in his usual spot, next to Chuck. Right behind the choke-out. He turns ands says something to Holly's father. Holly's husband is the dude in the green shirt.", 
        "You're a goof for this", 
        "You could have zoomed in bro.", 
        "Was watching the fight on the cage live. Pointed phone in his direction with one hand, pressed record and didn't look at what it had recorded till I got to the bar after. \n\nHence I \"was not Spielberg-esque in his cinematography Joe\"", 
        "Where's Waldo?", 
        "Do you have the finish for Nate vs Conor?", 
        "No coz I was crying man tears! (Of sorrow btw)", 
        "Good man.", 
        "I feels ya braw", 
        "Wow he stopped staring down at his screen. Rare indeed. No Pun. Dana always watches his stupid screen while sitting ringside. ", 
        "Makes perfect sense. He needs to be close to the ring to hand over the belt, etc, but the TV market is the biggest part of the business, so he wants to see what the primary audience is seeing.", 
        "Sound nice but.... the commentators don't even watch the screen. Look at Joe fore example. Always watches the cage live and they have to be more in sync with the fight  adn home audience then Dana. If he wants to monitor/test his product It would more logical for him to rewatch the event on a screen afterwards in a quiet environment and with the option to replay.  No need to watch the screen during a live event.", 
        "Joe at least watches the screen more than the cage. And I'm pretty sure he's actually said before that the screen is better to watch rather than live as they usually get better cleaner angles.", 
        "You should watch Joe more carefully, the commentators watch the screens more often than not. They do tend to watch the action live when it's RIGHT in front of them, but that can be misleading as it's when the commentators are more visible to us. Keep an eye on Joe in the background when he's across the cage the the action.", 
        "Ive already 'studied' dana. Will have a look at the commentators.", 
        "No idea where hes at, but I do see a couple of giant bald heads", 
        "zoom in I cant fukin see", 
        "Wonder what he said to Holly's father..", 
        "Don't know where the fuck Dana is but damn it was hard watching Holly's husband's reaction", 
        "Is Chuck doing a bump? Look carefully.", 
        "Nice catch, blanco nino.", 
        "I love the expression on Dana's face in this clip. ", 
        "Apologies for the non-panoramic view but I was watching the fight and had the phone pointing in his direction without taking much notice coz of the fight. ", 
        "I use to love K-1.\n\nThe 2010 Grand Prix(all in one night) was always the most memorable. \n\n[Gokhan Saki v Overeem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-bmH_88x-M) was my favorite fight from the night, mainly because I've always been a Saki fan since. He went into that fight with a broken arm and the size difference was crazy, 15 seconds in he nearly knocks Overeem out with a spinning back-kick.", 
        "Used to, not use to. ", 
        "Meh I wouldn't say nearly knock him out. He clearly was already blocking once he saw Gokhan move, so I dunno bud wouldn't say this is \"nearly knocking him out\"", 
        "Sniffle I remember watching it live, on the plus side Ubereem got a belt.", 
        "No badr in 2010 tho", 
        "That fight was insane, i remember being baffled by the speed of saki's left hand, the double up punch were lighting fast to the body and head only the left hand", 
        "Watching the fight right now, that spinning back kick was so good! It looks like the king's prized fighter against a peasant because of the size difference.", 
        "> He went into that fight with a broken arm\n\nReally? How did he think that was a good idea?", 
        "One of the big criticisms of the K1 GP was that they got paid for every time they entered the ring. So even when they were injured in their previous fight, fighters would try to still show up, even when they knew they had no chance. ", 
        "Yeah that doesn't sound like the best policy!", 
        "Depends if you care about the fighters more than the show.", 
        "It was a Grand Prix. He thought he could win. ", 
        "He also used to beat the shit out of Overeem every day in the gym. to be fair, he threw and landed a lot before Overeem realized he could end it with a body kick.", 
        "Irish Flag... Likes K-1.... A fellow Eurosport Brother in Arms! What A Fucking Show K1 was. I loved it, it was on Fridays and if I was too broke to go out I was secretly delighted with this on a Friday. ", 
        "Eurosport BROS! Watching the greats like Bobb Sapp, Hong Man Choi and Akebono and I felt like I was part of some elite club.", 
        "It was like someone organised a legal Mortal Kombat - you had killers like Ray Sefo, Peter Aerts and Mighty Mo as well.", 
        "Commentator was great. Phrases he always used: Jerome Le Banner - greatest champion there never was. All over him like a drunk on a kebab ", 
        "Did he enter with a broken arm, or did Overeem break it with a kick?", 
        "Before the Overeem fight, notice how he only throws one soft punch with the right hand. ", 
        "he lands 3/5 punches in a combination all with his left. ", 
        "He broke it in his previous match vs Daniel ghita defending a head kick or caught one to the arm.", 
        "Ghita just spammed straight body kick, he had a broken bone in his forearm, and a broken rib on the same side. ", 
        "I believe he entered with a broken arm/hand that he damaged in a fight earlier in the night so he probably didn't know the extent of the damage.\n\nIf you watch the fight you will notice he doesn't throw one punch with his right hand, which is unheard of for an orthodox fighter. The kick he got from Overeem landed on his damaged arm and it was just too much to handle.", 
        ">Gokhan\n\nAh, so that's how it'd be spelled if Goku and Gohan fused.", 
        "It literally means emperor of the skies in Turkish.", 
        "You Don't Mess With the Gohkan!", 
        "That's one of the things I miss about the pride/k1 days. You didn't feel like you were just watching a fight so much as you were witnessing something historic. Fighters didn't feel like products where you saw them play up a character to promote a fight, but rather seemed heroic, almost mythical. They seemed so above it all; it was awe-inspiring to see it. Sure, a lot of contemporary fans will say they don't wanna see an MMA WWE, but don't they fall into that trap when they tune in to the latest trash talk? It's all just a different facet of the same thing. For my money, I could do less with the hype and more with the grand spectacle.\n\nI mean, if you're fighting for the world title, and the recognition of being the strongest fighter on earth, shouldn't it warrant a little bombast and grandeur? ", 
        "I still get chills when I hear wild boys by duran duran. Immediately makes me think of Crocop walking out with a broken rib to fight Ernesto Hoost in the K1 final.", 
        "It's the display. From the lighting,  to the echoe on the refs mic, everything about pride is dramatic. The infinite darkness outside the ring. The knowledgeable crowd silent and giving applause at guard passes. The rule set which simulated the most intense fight possible. The amazing fights. Pride never dies.", 
        "> MMA WWE\n\nWhat exactly would you call the current trend to establish an image as strong as that of McGregor? Frequent brawls at weigh-ins and press conferences or even fghts at TUF finals.\n\nThe UFC has to watch very carefully that this is not overdone. It's a fine line between being a fighting division and a circus.", 
        "people want a circus though.\n\nDrama and feuds sell, whether we accept it or not. It's been that way for a long time and it most likely will continue. Human psychology i guess.", 
        "It already is overdone in my opinion. I haven't bought a PPV since Sonnen really started ramping up the WWE factor a few years back.", 
        "K1 was Japanese?  If so, maybe they picked up some of that grandeur from Sumo too?  No lasers there but it seems pretty grand.  And the wrestlers seem special too.  Or maybe it's just a Japanese thing?", 
        "Maybe. Some legends say that sumo was given to the Japanese by the Thunder God Raiden. Other folk beliefs say that sumo, when in the dohyo (ring) were seen as the avatars of gods", 
        "kinda grand..", 
        "Fun fact: when rikishi (sumo wrestlers) do that wide stomping deal, they're ritualistically scaring away demons, making the dohyo pure for holy battle. \n\nFunner fact: sumo is a kickass spectator sport. Matches are incredibly intense and they can end in the blink of an eye - the average match length is somewhere in the neighborhood of ten seconds. And you'd be surprised how violently a 400lbs body can be thrown...", 
        ">Funner fact: sumo is a kickass spectator sport. Matches are incredibly intense and they can end in the blink of an eye - the average match length is somewhere in the neighborhood of ten seconds. And you'd be surprised how violently a 400lbs body can be thrown...\n\nSubstitute bull riding for sumo and it still works. ", 
        "When I watched Sumo live, it didn't remind me of the pageantry of a K1 or Pride FC that I've seen on video. Everything was more traditional and smaller, yobidashi carrying a fan and singing/announcing the sumo wrestlers as \"entrance music.\" Wooden clapper instead of giant sound systems. People carrying banners for the sponsors providing prize money before big matches. The Yokozuna spinning the Japanese longbow ceremonially at the end was pretty cool but nothing big and over the top.  \n\nI would say that the over the top production could be a Japanese thing. Japanese people seem to be 100% about anything they do. You want to hike some easy trails outside of Tokyo and you see people with carbon fiber trekking poles and all this gear. So if you make a fight event might as well make it a giant spectacle.", 
        "New fans. Honestly I wouldn't know about half of the show around the UFC if it wasn't for this sub. \n\nI just like watching fighters fight. ", 
        "> but don't they fall into that trap when they tune in to the latest trash talk?\n\nYes.  And it's far uglier, cheaper, and worse for the sport.", 
        "What a great comment, and so true.  Pride gave you something that could give you goosebumps, but it still never felt hokey.  It was \"spectacle\" in the good sense rather than the bad.  It was SOOOO much better at building up fighters that you felt were just legendary.  UFC just relies on fake beefs with other fights to build up excitement - it is lazy promotion style.", 
        "I loved Pride but I think you're forgetting the whole \"Rampage lived in a dumpster/was stereotypical black homeless guy\" schtick and other gimmicks they had to promote fights/fighters.", 
        "Canseco with a baseball bat and the brazilians from the jungle", 
        "Yeah, it was a different product, I loved the spectacle, but it was less of a sport.\n\nNo regulations, blatant roid use, fixed fights, mismatches.\n\nI think part of the mystique for me is I always  watched it in Japanese (which I dont speak) and I didn't have any commentators or context to anything, made it much more surreal.\n", 
        "All i remember from Rampage in the pride days is that he had just come out of prison and the only thing he's doing this is for the money .\n\nOr at least thats what he said at the promo :P", 
        "Yeah, maybe I'm looking at it through rose-colored glasses?  I don't remember that specific one, though - just the chains and the howling.  ", 
        "It was for his very first fight in Pride. \n\nIt was all over the top and corny but it had to be -- it had to compete with pururesu, pancrase and K1. And we all loved it. Barnett coming out to Fist of the North Star and singing along, Big Nog and his special version of No Way Out by ZZ, Wand, all of it. It was just a different time, different mindset. \n\nAnd it was perfect.", 
        "Could you recommend the best pride event, or some of the best Pride fights for me to watch?", 
        "Everything Fedor and Wanderlei. Rampage/Arona. Bob Sapp just to see the spectacle side", 
        "I don't remember specific events.  If I were you, I would find out which events Kazushi Sakuraba fought in - he is the one fighter you would never have seen in the UFC but is probably one of the most creative fighters of all time.  If possible, I would watch his fights in order, as they kind of build up with his rivalry with the Gracie family.", 
        "Shogun/Little Nog, Sakuraba/Newton and Shogun/Rampage are three of my favorite non-Wanderlei fights.", 
        "Thanks bro", 
        "Fedor vs Crocop: http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x760j8_fedor-vs-crocop-1-3_sport\nfedor vs nogueria \nWanderlei vs Rampage\nThose are just some of the many great fights\n", 
        "Thanks dude", 
        "Happy to help.", 
        "Pride felt like watching Greek gods or gladiators fight to the death for our entertainment. ", 
        "Gladiators talked mad shit though. ", 
        "Stockton mother fucker. Stockton. ", 
        "Is a terrible, terrible place.", 
        "At least they were allowed to have their own endorsements.", 
        "They were also mostly slaves...\n\nI mean the Reebok deal is dumb as shit but, you know, perspective.", 
        "Ya. But they were also able to work as high class hookers.  It is all about plusses and minuses I guess.", 
        "Pretty much any high level UFC could definitely pimp themselves out for some decent coin tho. \n\nTo be fair to your point though no current fighter could wage rebellion I don't think. ", 
        "I am Conor! No I am Conor!", 
        "And then Sean shows up and declares \n\n\"NAY, I AM CONNNNNNERY, WOE BE UNTO YOU\"", 
        "A lot of the guys who fought in Pride or Strikeforce say that they enjoyed their time over there more. Pride fights were fucking awesome though. Never really watched K-1.", 
        "it was a special time in the MMA world.  ", 
        "If you like things then you'll like K1", 
        "I'm sure I'm not the only one, but watching Pride fights online was how I got into MMA in the first place. Miss those soccer kicks to the head", 
        "the 2009 K1 World GP finals was hands down the most exciting sporting event i've ever watched. i never saw a K1 final live before or since, i just so happened to stay up for the live broadcast being hyped for Ubereem and my god did it deliver. ", 
        "Both Pride and K-1 GP were just such a spectacle. So much hype and theater to it. Bellator tried to bring some of that back with their 4 man tourney a while back, but it wasn't really the same", 
        "I loved the Pride fights. I'm just not a fan of the boxing rings for MMA. I think the cage is much better. Now, some argue the boxing ring was good because it was smaller, and makes more exciting fights. but then I think they should just use a smaller cage. Having to stop the fight, and reposition fighters really interrupted the flow of the fight IMHO.", 
        "Repositioning did not interrupt the flow that much at all. People still got punched once the ropes were out of the way. This is a common misconception amongst many about pride fc.", 
        "I prefer larger arenas because it allows for more movement and experimentation.", 
        "Nostalgia plays a big factor here I think. People remember the highlight reel fights and forget the bad fights, then compare that to an average of today's best and worst fights.", 
        "I have every PRIDE and the first 100 UFCs downloaded. I'll turn on a PRIDE event much more often. Even the crappy fights (random Japanese dude vs random American dude) are more exciting than the UFC ones.", 
        "WEC used a smaller cage and gave us sick fights like Pettis bendo. Id love to see a slightly smaller cage in the UFC. As well as kicks and knees to grounded opponents. No more putting a hand on the mat in the clinch to save your face. That's lame. ", 
        "It is just a whole different ball game. Look at Anderson in a ring vs in a cage.", 
        "I believe the UFC does use 2 different sized cages.  The big cage is used in the PPVs and the smaller is used for the TUF shows and other smaller shows.  ", 
        "Yep, I remember Frankie talking about preparing to fight Mendes, and how it was in the smaller cage.", 
        "This is absolutely correct. ", 
        "I tried googling this and got some mixed answers. Is one cage 25' and the bigger is 30'? And what is that, width of the cage?", 
        "Diameter - from one end to the other", 
        "from Ben Fowlkes great article on big VS small cage\nhttp://mmajunkie.com/2014/09/when-it-comes-to-the-ufcs-octagon-for-fighters-size-matters\n\n**But do the math on the total square footage and you have one cage that\u2019s 44 percent larger and 20 percent wider, says statistician Reed Kuhn, who has analyzed the effect of cage size for his blog, Fightnomics.com, and found that fights in the smaller cage are notably more likely to end in a knockout or submission, in part because fighters throw around 20 percent more strikes than in the larger cage.**", 
        "They use whatever cage they want at any given time. It is actually a big deal because the UFC does not tell the fighters what size the cage will be or take an input from the fighters about it. Small cage favors grapplers and the large cage favors strikers. Kinda fucked up to be honest and they should just have one size cage.", 
        "125 fights in a big cage is ridiculous. those dudes can take 5+paces  from the center before hitting a barrier while most LHW and HW can only take 2 or 3. HW in the small cage is even is really bad, they can basically take 1 step from the center before being too close to a wall. Mitrione talked about this recently. \n\nhttp://mmajunkie.com/2014/09/when-it-comes-to-the-ufcs-octagon-for-fighters-size-matters\n\n\u201cI don\u2019t like fighting in that small cage,\u201d Mitrione (8-3 MMA, 8-3 UFC) told reporters. \u201cI\u2019d rather fight in a field than a phone booth. We\u2019re big bodies. You take two steps and you\u2019re fighting in the middle of it. For me, mobility\u2019s a big part of my game \u2013 that, and being athletic. For me, it feels like every time I make a movement I\u2019m a foot and a half from one side of the cage or the other, so it\u2019s more difficult.\u201d", 
        "Bring back the Yamma pit!\n\nI'm not joking.", 
        "My totally unrealistic dream MMA setup involves an octagon that adjusts between fights to the height of the fighters.  \n\nMitrione and Mighty Mouse don't use any other equipment that's the same size...", 
        "Also the cage should be suspended in the air or on a raised platform.", 
        "I'm a fan of a ring but with a kind of rope netting on the lower levels to stop guys from rolling off. Sort of like the k1 set up.", 
        "this", 
        "^^that's ^^what ^^the ^^upvote ^^button ^^is ^^for.", 
        "Yeah but the wait to see when someone would finally suplex a guy off the top turnbuckle onto the commentary desk was exciting.", 
        "True. But it also made them engage more since they couldn't just grind it out on the cage. I also loved the 10 minute first round. They both have their advantages and disadvantages.", 
        "you could also lean your head back over the ropes, and slide a foot under the bottom rope to avoid collapsing your stance when being pressured. when you back up into the cage, it's a massively disadvantageous position since you have to square up your stance and can't lean back to avoid shots. ", 
        "Yep. And you can make up for not being able to strike well by backing someone down into that position, or if you're unable to create your own takedown you can use the cage for that too. Like I said, advantages and disadvantages. ", 
        "It's more exciting in the ring because there's no fence for wrestlers to stall against.", 
        "this", 
        "This....is why there is an upvote button. ", 
        "And this is why this sub has such a terrible rep. ", 
        "That... is why there is a downvote button... I'll show myself out.", 
        "And [knees](http://i.imgur.com/DBNLiyq.jpg) / [soccer kicks](http://i.imgur.com/D3FIr76.jpg) to punish shitty takedown attempts. [Or not standing up](http://i.imgur.com/tGYvs3t.gifv).\n", 
        "Also freak fights, roids and fixed fights.\n\nI loved the Pride days, but let's thank god UFC was the company left standing.", 
        "Cm punk and James toney. Let's not act like the ufc doesn't do the same exact shit. Early ufc fighters and fighters to this day are juicing.", 
        "Also, with corners, ring control matters. You could cut off the ring and prevent guys from running.", 
        "Man K-1 was the shit. I remember watching the entire tournaments on EuroSport (back when they covered the weirdest sports) and it was immense. The fights took place on one night - draws  ended in an extra round and there was no grappling or ground strikes. \n\nIt could never last and I'm sure it would end with someone dying but for while it was there it was insane. Oh Bob Sapp and Butterbean.\n\n", 
        "BANNAAAAAAAAAAA", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "KAokai is baddest man on the planet - him and mighty mo man.", 
        "Yeah Nick Diaz said he felt like a prostitute or stripper while fighting in a cage in UFC, and thought Japan was more respectful to fighters. ", 
        "Did he go into more detail as to why he felt that way?", 
        "[Here's the video](https://youtu.be/5O95Q42UoeY). Topic starts around the 5 minute mark. ", 
        "In Pride the fighters were celebrated with grand entrances. The crowd was also very respectful and loved fighters who put on a show even if they lost.\n", 
        "Well it must really suck being booed by the crowd youre putting an entertainment for.", 
        "And they didn't have to do a shitload of press to promote the fight because those responsible for promoting the fight should be... you know... the promoters.", 
        "Well as a fan, I really enjoy open workouts and q and as. There is only so much Joe Rogan yelling OOOOH over fight clips before I get bored.", 
        "To be honest, Japan celebrates the fights not the fighters. So this means that being in Pride meant you were a part of the celebration. Being in the UFC means you are a product. Low selling product gets treated with little reverence (irregardless of success) so anybody who isn't in the upper-tier gets treated like a commodity.\n\n", 
        "This is a good description of the old days.  Gone is the prestige and aura of GSP and the Gracie's. Nowadays the UFC talisman are loudmouth Irishmen who can't even fight! ", 
        ">To be honest, Japan celebrates the fights not the fighters.\n\nIsn't the fact that Japan loves to put on freakshow fights somewhat in opposition to this?", 
        "Yeah it's like how enjoying the Harlem Globetrotters makes you anti-basketball.", 
        ">so anybody who isn't in the upper-tier gets treated like a commodity.\n\nNah, they're still a commodity, just a valuable one.", 
        "> irregardless\n\nDubya? Is that you?", 
        "Perfect description ", 
        "HDNet Fights was what got me into combat sports.  K1 and Pride were an amazing spectacle that will never be reproduced.  Shinya Aoki taught me to respect and appreciate the ground game, up until I started watching him I just didn't understand the complexity of it.  \n\nBadr Hari, Le Banner, Overeem, Aerts, Schilt, Bonjesky, Hoost, Leko, Cro-Cop.  I could go on and on.  To top it all off Michael Schiavello and Bas Rutten commentating. \n\nI lost interest in UFC when I realized the hype was more important than the fighters.  ", 
        "Yes.  Totally this.  Fighters were exciting individuals.  They were bigger than life.  \n\nNow they feel like ufc employees. ", 
        "The best part was I still have no idea who owns Pride or K1, because it doesn't matter.  Meanwhile we have Dana White at every weigh-in standing in between the fighters to make sure we don't forget who runs the dog and pony show that is the UFC.   When they throw a cheap shot at a weigh in they aren't deducted points or lose part of their purse they instead get a pat on the back from the UFC marketing department.  \n\nThe UFC profits off the fact that people love mindless drama. The fights play second fiddle to the drama.  I think that's why we will never see Nate Diaz on Joe Rogan's podcast, he isn't willing to sell out to the hype. \n\n*spelling", 
        "And the way Dana conducts himself is terrible, everybody reading this needs to read this article :http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2016/3/9/11186766/ufc-196-dana-white-interview-conor-mcgregor-vs-diaz-georges-st-pierre-vs-anderson-silva-mma", 
        "Yup the UFC is just trying to bury Nate's success because Dana hates the fact that Diaz has called him out multiple times on being a shady dude.  People are so fickle that they believe the garbage the UFC pumps out. \n\nI read somewhere Nate wasn't even training for a triathlon he was down in Cabo on a yacht chilling and then he got sick from drinking tap water down in Mexico, which he attributes to helping him cut weight.  \n\nBut let's not promote Nate overcoming adversity let's give credit to a fighter that had a full training camp who said he would \"dig a long narrow grave\" for Diaz.  It really shows that the UFC cares more about a fighters ability to market themselves than being an honest hard worker. \n\nI'm not a McGregor hater either, I just don't like having shit shoveled down my throat by the UFC. \n\n[The way Nate handled this shows his true character.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTzhVVIjLCE) He even apologized to GSP for what he said to get the fight against him in his famous wolf tickets press conference.    ", 
        "Is this after the fight? Cant watch it atm ", 
        "Pre-fight.  \n\n*I know it may not be a very popular opinion but for any human being to conduct themselves in this manor is downright embarrassing.\n", 
        "And now they're making Nate fight at welterweight because Dana is stressing the \"but he went up two weight classes!!\" When all the hardcore fans know that Nate is a lightweight, Dana is a twat.", 
        "Do  all yourselves a favor and look up some of the K1 greats on youtube and their fights, Peter Aerts, Ernesto Hoost, Jerome LeBanner, Andy Hug", 
        "Both Sappu vs Hoost fights were absolutely hilarious to me. All steroids vs all skill, and Hoost literally gets lifted off his feet by a Sapp uppercut", 
        "I still have all of the first complete final K-1 events on VHS and Harddisk. '93 till '98. The impact those events had on me was huge. Maybe because I was young. I don't know, but wouldn't have missed it for the world. It all started with K-1 for me. Then I discovered Pride and UFC. I miss the days of MA being big in Japan. I miss being young. \n\nAnd about current UFC . love some of the fights and fighters, hate the Nuts to the corn Hardcore Henry in his reebok boxershort on a silly Harley Davidson, the only motorcycle in the octagon-crap. ", 
        "Is there any chance you'd upload the original K-1 events online? Good footage of those early days are hard to come by. It'll be much appreciated :)", 
        "Pride announcer > Bruce Buffer. Ya I said it.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Calm down, Bruce.", 
        "Her name. FYI.", 
        "Lenne Hardt   \nhttps://youtu.be/nD9T7uv-Gts", 
        "She has a website where she'll scream your name pride style for your phone", 
        "Bruce Buffer is a mediocre announcer. His voice is bad and he has to make upfor it with gimmicks.", 
        "lol what?", 
        "https://youtu.be/WBCoLfr3qWY?t=353 check out the announcing at the '99 K-1 grand prix, blows away bruce buffer imo. ", 
        "\nBruce Buffer is a mediocre announcer. His voice is bad and he has to make up for it with gimmicks.", 
        "FIIIIIIIIIIGHTING ", 
        "We always mute the tv during Buffer. Ya I said it.", 
        "He is the worst.  His corny ass \"Fighting!!!!!!!!!111\" scream lmao", 
        "We always keep it muted for the fight too. There said it.", 
        "Sinner", 
        "Wtf went onto Jerome's wiki and it says he has an 86inch reach at 6\"3. That must be wrong, surely?", 
        "That's only 2 inches longer than Jon Jones, 1 inch per arm. Doesn't seem implausible...", 
        "I used to watch them in Japanese, I didn't understand a thing being said, but damn the production value was awesome. I loved the preflight  videos. Like they used to say I wasn't a show it was an event.  K-1 max was my personnel favorite. ", 
        "K-1 and Pride GP's were so epic. Miss those days. ", 
        "Just go back and watch all those K1 and Pride opening ceremonies. Fucking AMAZING.", 
        "Well, Zuffa does seem to spend all their money making the actual event look small.\n\nFighters walking out low through the crowd, everything dark and close to the cage, the dark cage and fence itself. They're mostly holding on to that underground fight club aesthetic.", 
        "Don't the smaller fighting organizations in the US do that better, though? ", 
        "Just go back and watch all those K1 and Pride were an amazing spectacle that will never be reproduced.", 
        "True, production values for the UFC have and always will be miserable.", 
        "Crazy tongue rolling female announcer from Pride > everyone else", 
        "Lenne Hardt FTFW", 
        "Pride/K1/even Dream were such a spectacle, seeing Minowaman take on giants, and eventually become the Superhluk champion, the grand Prixs, all of it sucked me in. ", 
        "I'll never forget watching a Pride (please tell me if you know which one this was) where people were parachuting into the Tokyo Dome (I think that was the one).\n\n\nIt was filled with 90 thousand people\n\nWhat a fuckin night of fights", 
        "I believe it was PRIDE 22 - Shockwave (8/28/02, Yoyogi National Stadium,Tokyo, Japan.\n", 
        "Why couldn't a tournament format work in the ufc when titles are vacated too long by a injured champ?\nThis is the entertainment business after all and nothing more exciting then a tournament to decide #1 contenders or champs?\nScrew the ppv and do it over a weekend on fox over 2-3 days.\n", 
        "Fans crapped on the Strikeforce HW GP. Why bother with tourneys if fans are not onboard. Fans always complain about everything the UFC does so it'd be even worse if the UFC tried the tournament format.", 
        "In addition to what the guy said about the doctors never allowing it. You basically have to do shortened fights if you want any chance of your fighters making it through the night which leave no one satisfied.", 
        "Less money to be made", 
        "I think they want full control over the matchmaking.", 
        "This is the correct answer", 
        "While not over that short of a timeframe, they did do a tournament when they introduced the 125-lb. belt.", 
        "4-man tournament isn't much of a tournament IMO.", 
        "Because tournaments never end up working, there will always be injuries, controversial decisions, etc. to ruin the tournament. Just look at the one night four man LHW tourny Bellator just did where King Mo got injured and Phil Davis ended up facing Francis Carmont instead. Or the Strikeforce Heavyweight tournament where Daniel Cormier who was an alternate ended up winning the whole thing.\n\nThe last tournament the UFC did for the flyweight belt ended in a draw. They also did one for LW many yeas ago. It also ended in a draw. Watch TUF if you want tournaments.", 
        "> Just look at the one night four man LHW tourny Bellator just did where King Mo got injured and Phil Davis ended up facing Francis Carmont instead. Or the Strikeforce Heavyweight tournament where Daniel Cormier who was an alternate ended up winning the whole thing.\n\nAlthough I think you're correct generally, these two examples seem to be cases where everything worked out despite injury.", 
        "They should have done it when GSP left. Totally stacked division, would have been amazing.", 
        "That would probably be illegal.  I doubt the commissions would allow that many fights that close and they definitely don't allow one night tournaments.", 
        "Weren't several of the first UFC events in the were one-day tournaments, and were obviously legally held in the US?\n\nAre the no longer allowed *anywhere* in the US?\n\n", 
        "The UFC wasn't sanctioned at that time.", 
        "Didn't Bellator just do a one night tourney last year? I know it was only a 4 man tourney but it at least suggests that fighting twice in one night is not out of the question. Maybe they could do an 8 man tourney with round 1 on one night and then rounds 2 and 3 somewhere between a week and a month later?", 
        "They're not illegal, Bellator had a one-night, four-man tournament last Summer in California.", 
        "Really?  Nice.  I thought the commissions didn't allow that.", 
        "And the first round fights were two rounds meaning no fighter could fight more than 5 rounds in a night.", 
        "How did the scoring work?", 
        "Forgot about the Dr. Suspensions after...guess that's why they don't do them anymore?", 
        "One night tournaments are actually banned in most states now.  ", 
        "Do it in a free country like Russia or Japan.", 
        "You can't. Dana white has talked about shit like this before. It's not that complicated. Basically you can't just go to Russia and do an event that the commission won't allow in the states because when you get back the commission/governing body's will be pissed. \n\nIt's a matter of respect. Doing something like that undermines their authority and is its just insulting. \n\nWhy is that an issue? Well because the u.s. is the most profitable place to hold events. Maybe a one off thing in Russia or whatever other country could make a good buck, but the back to back Vegas cards are worth alot more.", 
        "What about setting up a business in another country to avoid local tax rules? Is that \"rude\"?\n\nWhat about when hockey safety rules and penalties are different in olympic hockey? Is it a slap in the face to the NHL for players to follow these rules or vice-versa?", 
        "If you cant understand the difference between what I'm talking about and the examples you provided then I cant help you.\n\nWhat I can do is give you this [link.](https://youtu.be/94w2lwU-To0?t=490) I Advise that you google some things on how businesses work when it comes to government regulations, and how the entertainment industry functions around them. \n\nI feel that it takes very little thought to connect that fact that the UFC's events in other countries have the same rules and regulations as they do in the United States. There's a good reason for this. ", 
        "Don't blame firms for the tax evasion, blame the laws. A firm has to strategize for creating optimum shareholder value - if they were to pay local tax, they would not be maximizing value. The board would replace them faster than you can flinch facing Nate in a stare off. ", 
        "I bet they don't care that it'd disrespect the USA athletic commissions it's more they would have many people getting injured and not being able to continue in the next round of the tournament. I remember this always happened in the early days of UFC when they always had tournaments. Then they would have some new fighter take the guys place which made no sense, so you had a fresh fighter take on a guy who just won a fight as if that was fair.", 
        "The K-1 Grand Prix in its day was always the coolest ...", 
        "k-1 is pretty much on its own level. reminds me of friday night fights`", 
        "Thanks for reading. If you like it, get on GoodReads or Amazon and rate it. If you change your mind, however, keep your damn opinions to your damn self. ", 
        "Why did the UFC buy out pride if they arent doing much in Japan? Is it just to get rid of competition?", 
        "UFC got fucked in the deal. I think they didn't get contracts of any of the fighters so basically they were left with just the empty brand and rights to the old Pride fight library, while the Japanese started basically the same thing under a different name. Joe Rogan has talked about it in his podcast", 
        "I think that is 100% correct. The entire country was paying attention. Everyone got excited about the matchups and even knew the lesser ranked fighters. It was an occasion.", 
        "God not one mention in this thread of Badr, how the mighty have fallen. ", 
        "Genki Sudo's entrances man", 
        "I think it's because in those other organizations they made it more about the fighters and not the company. ", 
        "I always feel that way about the undercard prelim fights. A bunch of guys that only really hardcore fans know, destroying themselves for tiny pay cheques and tiny crowds.", 
        "TIL Mark Hunt used to be called \"The Doctor\"", 
        "They should make have a UFC grand prix or a throwback to the original with modern rules.", 
        "The fight was like a rocky movie. ", 
        "Is this book available in physical form in the US yet?", 
        "Does anybody know a good source from where I can buy online dvd/bluray's of Pride and K-1?", 
        "http://www.iwmdvds.com/\n\nebay is still the best bet for original issue, that's where I completed my set", 
        "I enjoyed K-1 (the old one) a lot but it lost a ton of luster for me in the late 2000s. They tried to hype up some of the smaller talents but outside of Masato at MAX they didn't have anything other than the exact same HWs they regurgitated and the freak shows Tanikawa loved. The last seven or so years before FEG took over were amazing though. I agree that UFC just hasn't had that spectacle outside of their big stadium events (of which 198 will only be the fourth).", 
        "What happened to K-1?", 
        "Loved K1 back in the early 2000s, def was the place you wanted to be kickboxing at. A few of the dudes at my old gym fought in it,  one made the GP Tokyo a few times, was really nice to train with him ", 
        "The best part was I still have no idea who owns Pride or Strikeforce say that they enjoyed their time over there more.", 
        "UFC events are always at the same level. They have no \"prestige-event\" like the Pride Grand Prix or their own Wrestlemania. It would attract more casual viewers if there were one super-card or - much better - a tournament every year. They had them in the 90s but dropped them for several reasons like too much injuries and stuff. ", 
        "The closest thing UFC has is like the X00 cards. UFC 100 was huge and they want to make UFC 200 the same. But those only come around every what? 8 years or so?", 
        "Everyone should watch Pride decade, good documentary.  Apparently Pride had ties with the Yakuza too.\nAbsolutely love watching old pride videos, much better than ufc in my opinion.\nLoved the ring announcers, bas rutten commentating and it seemed like such a spectacle.\nThink Fedor in his prime would beat Jones anyday too.", 
        "I remember one time in K1 there was judoka vs judoka, I think mma rules. Both were japanese and wearing gi. As the fight started, they bull rushed each other, grabbed each others collars and started punching one another in the face with no defense or intent to take it to the ground. I can't remember how it ended but it was bloody and extremely demented.", 
        "The UFC used to have alot more pageantry and spectacle and i guessed looked at how the WWE used to do things remember [Chuck liddels Entrance?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XdhkIgsK7Dk) but they wanted to rebrand themselves and seem more legit so they took inspiration from boxing coming out of a tunnel through the crowd etc. \n\nI would like to see more pageantry and spectacle when it comes to title fights it doesn't have to be to the point of cheesy WWE entrances. But Pride did do it incredible well [Fedors was one of the best](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgRfzHRRulk) \n\nBut they could even go down the route that [Wladamir does](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nrTkd403Rmg)", 
        "I lived in Japan from 2004-06 and K-1 was something I instantly fell in love with.  I still can't get enough of kickboxing.", 
        "I miss K1. Glory has great talent but there's nothing like the pomp and pageantry of the big show any more. I used to love following the tournaments all year and looked forward to the GP final like I looked forward to Christmas when I was 5 years old. Hopefully one day we'll see something on that scale again.", 
        "Mark Hunt was never my friend.  ", 
        "\"Mark Hunt released.\"\n\nJust kidding, everyone.", 
        "The UFC has really shitty production. Let's face it,  the owners are pocketing way too Much of the profit. ", 
        "I wouldn't say shitty tbh. More so minimal than anything. With that being said though, a lot of events could fare to use a tad bit more pomp and circumstance ", 
        "The UFC production is no better than your regional MMA event. The owners take in too much profit and not enough investment on production value and fighter pay. \n\nWell,  Dana has to carry garbage bags full of cash to the casino to lose ", 
        "The hyperbole is real haha. To compare the quality of a UFC event to that of a regional MMA one is an insult to men and women involved in the process. I'm not saying it's top teir by any stretch of the imagination, but it's certainly competent and that's more than what I can say for a regional event. ", 
        "You haven't been to the old WEC events here in Cali before the a UFC bought them out", 
        "UFC fighters feel like a product, not a fighter.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgRfzHRRulk\n\nPride Entrances were just BETTER, even that 5 second VS screen is better than anything the UFC uses. ", 
        "but but but I'm mcgregor fan who needs my drama spoon fed to me!!!!!! I don't appreciate MMA as a sport and neither do I respect the athletes that have trained for years!!! I like fake hype more than real sports!!!!!", 
        "I am glad about that. I don't want the WWE version of MMA", 
        "In terms of pure striking k1 put on many legit shows when it came to tournament time, it wasn't all spectacle and freak shows. Andy Hug, Hunt, Badr Hari, Semmy Schilt, Ernesto Hoost, Mirko, Peter Aerts, Saki, Le Banner, Bonjasky, Reem etc all are pretty top tier strikers for their times.", 
        "That's true, but I was going by the quote and the stuff that Hunt chose to highlight. His description sounded more like WWE than a real sport.", 
        "You mean non-real sports like all the various Olympic competitions, which are all preceded by a grand, multi-hour Opening Ceremony extravaganza?", 
        "Man, the Flying Gentlemen was so much damn fun to watch back in the day.", 
        "Oh he's not bias at allll", 
        "With that kind of money UFC better hope that McGregor mania didn't take a hit with that loss.", 
        "It absolutely did. He lost that \"invincible\" status.", 
        "Super popular fighters losing often has the opposite effect. Silva, Chael, GSP, Brock, Fedor (to an extent). Fans (especially casual fans) either love the comeback aspect or still want to see someone \"shut them up\". Stardom doesn't usually wear off until the losses start mounting up.", 
        "Chael lost all credibility after his second lost to Silva. Brock fell off after he lost the title. Fedor did not get bigger after he lost.", 
        "First of all, that's why I said multiple losses. Chael and Brock's star power fell off once they had lost multiple fights. I literally said that although I would still argue Brock would be one the biggest stars in MMA still if he came back at this point. Also I qualified my Fedor comment as to an extent. I would also stand by it because of the way people are reacting to Fedor's current run. His losses have not diminished his stardom whatsoever. \n\nMy point is that fans love a comeback story and people that hate those fighters still want to see them \"shut up\". One loss does not have the effect that some people think it does.", 
        "I am the biggest Fedor fan, but his losses absolutely diminished his stardom. Before he lost, he was the biggest legend in MMA of all time. Once he lost, *everybody* was talking about the fact he lost. \"Did you hear Fedor lost?\" \"What did you think of the Fedor lost?\" \"Man, Fedor lost!\", in his situation, it could be aruged it was a fluke due to the quick triangle, but the next fight sealed the deal. Dana was happy, the world switched from Fedor back to UFC, thinking \"Now UFC has the top guy\". If Fedor retired undefeated, he'd have that legendary status, and while he is still the best ever in my eyes, plenty will argue that he isn't because now they have a case to argue. \n\nAll your points are good, man, but I'm arguing that it absolutely has an effect on his status. He was a few fights away from Anderson Silva status, Fedor Status, Ronda Status, Jones Status. He was right there. Now he isn't. I'm not saying he's at the bottom of the totem pole, but he's no longer in that talk. He's very good and an elite, but he's not in the top 5 p4p discussion anymore. He's not in the legendary status discussions. He's not in the Fedor realm or the Silva realm or Jones realm. \n\nThat's something all fans have to accept. Yes GSP came back, but that's one person. Nobody else has done that. Fedor isn't fighting top guys anymore after his return. Silva is not the same fighter. Brock crumbled once hit, he was exposed. He'd never make a comeback because he doesn't like getting hit and he was fully hyped by UFC and isn't in the legendary status discussions. \n\nRegardless, Conor is a great fighter, but he's been removed from the discussion. He could come back, he could win 10 fights in a row and be back in that discussion, but right now he's not and the future is unwritten.", 
        "I feel like we're arguing different points. From a legacy in the sport standpoint, yes losing hurts a person. It hurts their brand, especially when they're billed as the greatest. \n\nFrom a popularity standpoint, a single loss is not going to affect much. People are still invested after a single loss. It does very little to affect the number of people wanting to see them fight. \n\nGSP-Serra 2 did 130,000 more PPV buys than their first fight. Silva-Weidman 2 did 500,000 more PPV buys that their first fight. Silva vs Diaz was the 6th most bought PPV of 2015 which was one of the best years in company history. Just as many people wanted to see Fedor fight after the Werdum loss. Fedor's loss to Werdum did little to suppress the excitement and intrigue of Strikeforce HW Grand Prix especially with Fedor's involvement. More people watched the opening of the HW GP than watch Fedor lose to Werdum. Page van Zant is on Dancing with the Stars after a loss. Sage Northcutt seems to have not skipped a beat in her popularity. Ronda Rousey has appeared on Ellen and the Tonight Show and filmed movies since her loss to Holm.\n\nPeople love a comeback story, they love champions that fall down and get back up again. They love Rocky stories. Stardom diminishes much, much more slowly than skills deteriorate. ", 
        "Agreed, popularity for Conor probably won't change, it might go down slightly due to losing that crazy status and everyone wanting to see if the \"invincible\" fighter can be beat. So there will inevitably be a slight decline due to that, right? There has to be causals who just wanted to see the undefeated dude fight. Now that he lost, it loses that appeal to casuals. Not all, I'm sure but some. \n\nI agree with your points", 
        "I think McGregor's action fighting style will limit any damage from taking that loss. That Diaz fight was a fun fight. All my casual friends loved it, and look forward to seeing McGregor's next one. And they know who Nate Diaz is now. Even the staunchest McGregor hater can't say that wasn't a fun fight ignoring the glee of watching McGregor lose. \n\nHis next fight likely won't draw as much as it would have if he won and fought for the LW belt. It will still be a bigger draw than any other male fighter can conjure at the moment.", 
        "I don't think a loss in MMA is too detrimental. If he headlines UFC 200 and beats Aldo or Frankie convincingly he's back on track.", 
        "It definitely took a hit but it isn't completely gone and some of it will have just transferred over to Nate. ", 
        "True.  If anything, it all just got more interesting.  \n      \nWhat I want to happen now:\n       \nNate fights RDA and dethrones him around UFC 200\n       \nKhabib beats Ferguson and fights Diaz and dethrones him.\n       \nConor fights Aldo and Eddie and then moves up to 155 for RDA fight and then gets Diaz rematch and defeats him at UFC 209.\n      \nThen Conor v. Khabib happens while Khabib is the reigning undefeated champ.  ", 
        "That's a Conor fantasy if I've ever seen one.", 
        "Lol, the whole thing is a fantasy.  I just predicted the winners of 7 matchups that haven't even been declared yet.  I'm just saying this would be the most satisfying course of events.  And I don't have a favorite for Khabib/Conor.  I want to see that fight and I hope Khabib is healthy, but I want Khabib to get the title and have a big money fight with McGregor while he's still undefeated.", 
        "did it ? the next conor fight you are definitely going to see because you want to know if he can get back on track. if he wins, everything is back to normal if he loses bye bye big money", 
        "What the fuck is this, the money subreddit?\n\nEdit: the video is actually very interesting. I wonder if the UFC is looking at the business model the WWE changed to in the last few years? I guess Vince thought that in the digital age the PPV model is outdated, does anyone have any insight into how successful the WWE have been since the change?", 
        "I'm hoping someone here can clarify this for me, but I have heard from numerous people that the NAC disclosed purse is actually only a fraction of the contracted show purse. Even ignoring PPV points revenue share, the fight purse that is contractually stated is allegedly much larger than the disclosed amount stated by NAC.\n\nDoes anyone know more about this?", 
        "I think so. I think it was on an episode of Show Money they talked about how some of the top guys had a second contract that paid more - in addition to ppv points if they had it - a week or so after the fight", 
        "I can't confirm that but it is said to be common practice for Dana/UFC to give 'discretionary bonus' payments to fighters on top of disclosed pay. These bonus payments are undisclosed and can vary greatly as a result with no way to confirm beyond the fighter disclosing it themselves which they rarely do. ", 
        "Yes, thank you. I know there are discretionary bonuses, but those bonuses are not contractually enforced. I'm talking about guaranteed fight purse money that is not included in the disclosed NAC pay.", 
        "There is no guaranteed \"fight purse\" money other than what is reported to the NAC. The rest is PPV points, discretionary bonuses, and performance of the night bonuses. Only PPV points are contractually guaranteed of those 3.", 
        "Wasn't sure what you knew exactly, you've only had the account 8 days so I figured you might not be up to speed on how the UFC does business, but you are so we're just uncertain together because I don't know either.", 
        "One of the few contracts that ever came out publicly was Alistair Overeem's. In that contract he was paid something like $1.5 million to sign with the ufc but that payment was dispersed over the course of his first three fights. So his end of day pay in each of his first three fights in the UFC would have been guaranteed to have been $500,000 above what was disclosed as his show money and separate from any piece of the PPV he may (or may not have, I don't remember) have had worked out. Obviously, Overeem was a big name who was brought in to fight Brock on a PPV so most guys are not getting $500,000 more than you see in disclosed pay and many of them are probably getting only what you see in disclosed pay. I think another deal that was made public was Gilbert Melendez signing for a $250,000 signing bonus. Mike Jackson told me on this sub that he did not get any signing bonus to fight Mickey Gall. ", 
        "I bet he knows about Stockton now", 
        "Do you guys feel Conor has lost some of his flair? I can't talk without being bias", 
        "you can hear nick in the background \"let him burn out slowly\"", 
        "foreshadowing to UFC 196", 
        "or pretty much any fight involving the Diaz brothers...", 
        "No he was talking about a joint", 
        "\"You're done Robert, you're breaking Robert\"", 
        "\"Nate, you're ready to die here. You got heart\".", 
        "Robert! You're done! You're done, son!", 
        "Robert wasn't ready to die.", 
        "UFC 200: Conor Mcgregor vs Robert", 
        "as long as its not at 170", 
        "2 units on Robert by sub", 
        "This sub makes me laugh out loud more than any other.  Last week it was a sarcastic comment about Ido and his foam noodles and now this.  I love it!", 
        "You know Roy Jones Jr. respects the hands of Robert", 
        "World Class Striking.\n\nUnderrated Ground Game.\n\nDangerous Off His Back.", 
        "His wrists are super duper strong too.", 
        "but can he touch butt?", 
        "Only when removing horseshoes from asses", 
        "I miss Lesnar", 
        "CM Punk vs Robert", 
        "3 more comments to 209", 
        "[We did it momma, we did it.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ma-a4naDqhY&feature=youtu.be&t=67)", 
        "Eddie bravo is a musician?", 
        "[He is.....maybe](http://i.imgur.com/lvJCw8J.gif)", 
        "Holy Christ that's bad. ", 
        "frosted tips - hair game on point", 
        "Sage will be impressed.", 
        "It's so early 2000s. Also the dude Nate is fighting looks like he's there to pick up his kids, why would a grown man want to underground fight a 16 year old? It's a lose lose situation.", 
        "Respect to the older guy, you could see in his eyes he knew what he was getting into but he still came in hard. ", 
        "That guy is actually a martial artist himself, it appears. \n\nhttps://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=10152778450797541&id=206946362540", 
        "That's really cool.  I'm glad you found that.", 
        "Because he likes fighting and he doesn't mind losing? ", 
        "Rory MacDonald fought professionally at 16. There's a big 145 prospect from SBG Ireland called James Gallagher, he's 19 now and fought amateur bouts against adults since he was 13.\n\nHe met Kavanagh at 13 when he was supposed to judge, or referee (can't remember) one of for his fights against a twenty-something adult. Kavanagh refused to take part but invited James to train with him. \n\nEdit: Here is the link to Gallagher's third pro fight at BAMMA a couple of weeks ago - https://youtu.be/EycNXSw-gcc", 
        "I know, Bisping did as well and so did Mayhem and I think Condit. Mayhem, or it could have been another fighter, talked about the underground fight scene that was around in the late 90s/early 2000s when MMA was a lot smaller, and also illegal in New York so it had to be underground. A bunch of them started that young. Angela Lee's younger brother is 17 and he absolutely raped a 35 year old guy unconscious in his fight in One FC a month ago.\n\nBut why would you take an unsanctioned fight if you were an older guy, you win and you beat up a kid, you lose and you got beaten up by a kid.", 
        "Because for some of us, martial arts is about learning and about testing you skills. It's not about winning or losing, it's about evolving as a fighter. And actually fighting is a great way to grow.", 
        "Yeah, well potentially beating the shit out of a child doesn't seem like a great way to learn, it just turned out Nate was preternaturally talented, if this had been a grown man demolishing a 16 year old you'd probably think differently. He starts the fight with a hard kick to the stomach, the guy meant business", 
        "Obviously they knew about each others skill level, any good trainer will make sure you are matched appropriately", 
        "Obviously? You can't possibly know that, just like I can't know that they didn't know each others skill level, but that's still a grown man with man strength against a skinny 16 year old. \n\nIt was fine here, but that's because you never see the 16 yo versus grown men where the 16 year old gets the shit kicked out of them, you only ever see the 16 year old Rory MacDonalds and Nate Diazes, who are natural beasts.", 
        "No, I can't possibly know that, and you can't possibly know either. But i have trained at a half dozen gyms and I know that any decent trainer cares for it's fighters and makes sure that they get challenging but realistic match ups. The fight was obviously planed way in advance, this was not a brawl, there where rules, and both sides showed sportmanlike conduct before and after. Nothing indicates that this was a spontaneous event where neither side knew who they where fighting. Contrary, Robert is introduced as \"Kihon\", meaning he probably trained karate. My guess would be kyokushin. Whereas Nate was introduced as Gracie. It was one of those stand up vs ground match ups, with a predictable outcome.\n", 
        "My first mma fight I was 28, my opponent was 18. We both trained hard and were there to test ourselves. It was a fair fight.", 
        "That's a sanctioned MMA fight so that's a bit different, in this situation what if the older guy had 25 years experience and he beat the fuck out of some 16 year old white belt? That would be nasty to watch and downright shameful.", 
        "Maybe whoever set up the fight knew they were similar in skill", 
        "Big what if though in a situation where it's almost given these guys know each other, or at least know of each other's schools and know neither school is going to throw a beginner in with a lion.  I'm not saying it doesn't happen in underground environments in general, just saying this situation appears to be more of a smoker-type situation where gyms get together and fight each other so they get experience fighting other people than their teammates.", 
        "Why not? Age is just a number, skill matters most.", 
        "Not really. Would you put a 17 year old against prime Fedor?", 
        "That's the point, age isn't the factor, it's going to be the massive skill deficit between a 17 year old and Fedor. ", 
        "Age = more physical maturity and development. One of the reasons why football players need the college years before entering the NFL.", 
        "\"You think 17 year olds should fight!? Hmm, well what if we put possibly the most dominant fighter in history up against a 17 year old? DOES THAT SOUND FAIR TO YOU THEN, HUH?!?! DIDNT THINK SO, CHECKMATE\"", 
        "If he was Mike Tyson and he had learned MMA along with his boxing, yes.", 
        "Sage Northcutt vs Fedor at UFC 200.  \nI would watch it.", 
        "What's with the weird, narrow spacing between lines in your comment?\n\nThis is very mysterious...", 
        "LOL how many people in the history of MMA would you put up against a prime Fedor though? ", 
        "18year olds aren't going to be nearly the physical equal of a mid 20s man in most cases. \n\nThere is the odd freak but rare.", 
        "Tell that to Sage Im only 19 Northcutt", 
        "He would be the odd freak.", 
        "Really off topic, but how ridiculous is it to have a neck tattoo by 19?...like, I can't even imagine what 19-year-old me would look like to this 19-year-old.", 
        "Karo parisyan fought professionally since he was 16 and was a ufc contender at age 24", 
        "Do u even know who he is", 
        "I just want to talk to you privately outside bro", 
        "James Gallagher? Must be looking for fiona and the kids", 
        "> Kavanagh refused to take part\n\nBut he did take over.", 
        "Naah just played touch butt with a dork in the park.", 
        "Can't play touch butt until the kid turns 18. Maybe 16 in the UK I'm not sure but 13 is a nogo for touchbutt.", 
        "tell that to the catholic church. ba-dum-cheee!!", 
        "Touch butt world champions!", 
        "Jesus christ you people are judgmental as fuck. It was a friendly fight. Just because you're pushing 40 does not mean you quit on life. People have hobbies. You don't know the context of his life.", 
        "It also doesn't mean you should try beat up a minor. What if this guy beat the absolute shit out of some 16 year old that wasn't as talented as Nate and brutally knocked him out, giving him serious brain damage at an age when his brain is still developing?\n\nThat guy could have 20 years of martial art experience and be fighting a teenager who's only been learning for 4 years and doesn't have the strength of a man yet. Only in this case he was going against a future elite fighter, so it didn't end up being a grown man beating up a child.", 
        "...you do realize there's a difference between the UFC and a friendly match in some gym, right?", 
        "Yeah, the lack of any protective gear and the aggressive kick the guy threw immediately is the height of friendship", 
        "did you watch the video? They didn't throw a single punch, chill out man", 
        "why would you even say that?  It's a planned fight.  It's not happening at the back of an alley somewhere", 
        "I don't agree with that guy at all, but they are punching a bit. Don't you see the huge hook Diaz threw at 15 seconds in?", 
        "It was open-hands. ", 
        "that doesnt mean it can't knock somebody out", 
        "You sound like an idiot. Nobody so much as threw a punch.", 
        "If you think people don't throw punches in these type of fights, you're an idiot. ", 
        "Clearly you didnt watch the video then", 
        "Not that I don't think Oceanracoon is an idiot, because I do, but Nate clearly throws punches in the video", 
        "Diaz threw a few bad punches (2 standing, and a mixture of loose punches and open hand shots while in the mount), but thankfully with nothing behind them. Robert threw a couple open-hand shots.\n", 
        "This is a terrible way to present an argument. With the exception of your last sentence,  you just fabricated a story about a potential outcome without knowing ANY context and while actually knowing what happened in reality. Pointing out the absolute worst case scenario is lazy and ineffective.\n", 
        "lol hi old man", 
        "28 is old?", 
        "Yes", 
        "Bro at that age I assume you're using the communal computer at the nursing home you live in. /s", 
        "/s \n\nXD", 
        "I'm older. *Fuck these cunts.*", 
        "> You don't know the context of my life.\n\nI'm gonna shout that next time the McD's cashier judges me for supersizing everything. \n", 
        "lol", 
        "I'm pushing mid-40s and the only thing I wanna fight is the line at the Sizzler buffet.  ", 
        "Well you speak for yourself cause there's plenty of people your age+ training ", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=badMwEC1YEQ&t=14", 
        ">\"[I wouldn't want to fight him](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=badMwEC1YEQ&t=14)\" - Length: 00:00:30", 
        "Actually looks more like the full Eminem, but his hair grew out.\n\nSource - had this exact hair in that exact year ", 
        "He slapped him into an arm bar hahaha", 
        "Even at 16 he was slapping the shit out of people. Fucking hilarious. \n\n(I guess it was the rules, since no gloves)", 
        "And thus, the Stockton Slape was born.", 
        "Earning those burritos", 
        "Im not surprised Motherfuckers", 
        "That check hook,  his corner shouting \"Let him burn out\", and the patented stockton slap is exactly what we've seen in every Diaz fight since. ", 
        "Don't mess with success", 
        "There's something so barbaric yet pure about bare knuckle fighting. Those of you who have seen it in person can attest to the violent sound of bone of the hand clashing against bone of the face. \n\nSidenote: Nate has been slaping mudafukas since day one.", 
        "They appear to be fighting under pancrase ules, no closed fist strikes allowed. Ken Shamrock actually goaded Bas Rutten into punching him in a fight to try to get him disqualified.", 
        "They didn't bare knuckle fight though. The punches they threw to the head where open palm.", 
        "yeah, they're not slapping each other because there is a rule that says so. they are slapping each other because they don't want to break their hands because knuckles are fucking brutal\n", 
        "This looked more like a form of shoot fighting to me. They're allowed to use open handed strikes which can often be worse than getting hit with a fist", 
        "Bas Rutten throwing those open palm strikes, so vicious", 
        "And we get to hear about it every....single....time he's on Joe Rogan. ", 
        "I'm wondering if it was only a light open slap fight and if this is where the Stockton Slap originated; Underground Stockton Slap Fight Club", 
        "ESPN 30 for 30 special is needed", 
        "If you're not wearing gloves, you're better off with slapping than punching anyways. Less chance of a hand being broken.\n", 
        "That's what I'm thinking. ", 
        "It looks like it was just a friendly competition, Robert also threw some slaps around. ", 
        "Kinda makes me wonder how Robert thought he could win because he didn't seem to know any jiu-jitsu. Tap out due to slaps?", 
        "This was in 2001ish. Lots of wrestlers thought they could still rely on just that back then.", 
        "Kicks to the liver bro. ", 
        "He might've known some amateur wrestling.  He sprawls on Nate's takedown attempt and looks like he's working for a guillotine before he gets passed and mounted.", 
        "I thought he had it pretty well sunk in when Nate stood up too, Nate just powered through it", 
        "Didn't power through it, moved to the opposite side of the choke. Day 15 jiu-jitsu.", 
        "Diaz ladies man ", 
        "is that the girl from the article?", 
        "That article was about Nick, not Nate. ", 
        "what article?", 
        "I'm gonna advise you don't read it.", 
        "Only makes me want to read it more. Someone link me.", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49gpzl/so_i_was_reading_more_about_the_diaz_brothers/", 
        "Actually I think this one is better.  This is the one people are referring to because it was posted here in this sub the other day:  \nhttp://www.mmafighting.com/2015/9/14/9327767/nick-diaz-opens-old-wounds-on-a-dark-day-in-his-career", 
        "Sad stuff. ", 
        "http://www.mmamania.com/2015/9/15/9329597/ufc-nsac-emotional-nick-diaz-recounts-childhood-girlfriend-suicide-invest-fight-life-mma", 
        "Awesome video, thanks for the share.\n", 
        "No problem. Ever since I started following the Diaz brothers on Facebook updates like these have been gold.", 
        "I don't know exactly why but over the years I've developed an irrationally large hatred for people hanging on to guillotines after they get their guard passed. ", 
        "I hate it from going against bigger guys with little experience. It's frustrating waiting for them to try popping your head off and gassing before I can start mounting offense. I think your hatred is rational", 
        "It's easy to get carried away holding onto someone's neck, it's a primal position, feels good to grab onto.", 
        "Definitely annoying, then you have to rip your head out and risk cauliflower ear ", 
        "I think I know why.\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_lxWezwMP0\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rkwpb7RBu90\n", 
        "The girl who's on him is someone i would have been dreaming about at 16...", 
        "AMA request: Robert ", 
        "He was murdered after getting caught up in a love triangle (not the sexy submission)", 
        "Really? any source? or are you joking and im just mentally retarded?", 
        "https://giant.gfycat.com/WelldocumentedSecondaryGalapagostortoise.gif", 
        "lmao  :,(", 
        "Arms extended on the bottom; the rookie grappler's first mistake. \n\nGuillotine escape to side control, slide to mount, armbar. Textbook by young Nate, that's awesome.", 
        "Seems like he could have just sprawled better and held onto the guillotine, let his weight tire out diaz. ", 
        "He couldn't pull a guillotine without his hips forward. He could, however, have gone for a D'Arce or Anaconda. ", 
        "looked like he had a ten finger guillotine", 
        "nate wanted that burrito", 
        "Nate's elite takedown offense gets him yet another W at an early age.", 
        "Had that Von Flue choke sitting there all damn day.", 
        "It still amazes me how many pro's miss it.", 
        "I've tried it while rolling in the gym.  It is not nearly as easy to sink in as most other \"standard\" techniques.  I would call it a low percentage submission.", 
        "That's funny, for me it's one of my favorite high percentage submissions.  I have big shoulders though, so that probably helps.  do you raise your hips, turn them to your feet to apply pressure to his carotid, and get on your toes?", 
        "Yes, hip up, then turn to one side to apply shoulder pressure to side of neck.  Most of the guys I rolled with are pretty muscular if that matters, and are usually at least blue belt and above(most are amateur mma fighters).", 
        "That check hook has been deadly for him since day one.", 
        "His name was Robert Paulson ", 
        "In death, a Nate Diaz victim does have a name.", 
        "Ahhh yeah. Memories of being a white belt right there.\n\n\"Oh, sweet, I stuffed the takedown and his head is vulnerable... YES! I HAVE A GUILLOTINE! Don't let go... hold on to it. DON'T LET GO! ALMOST GOT HIM... ALMOST THERE... keep squeezing... harder, harder, HARDER. He's going to the side - no matter, I have his HEAD! Crap, he's on top in side control... but I still have his HEAD! Squeeze his neck! Crush it! Don't let go! SQUEEEEEEEEEZE!!\n\nShit. I'm mounted.\"\n\n\n", 
        "I know nothing about this, but what should you do? When should you let go? Why can't the choke work in certain positions?", 
        "The guillotine won't work on someone who has you in side control. It's an awkward angle to squeeze from, but mostly the reason you can't choke them is the lack of opposing leverage that you'd have if they were in your guard. ", 
        "You should wrap your legs around them so they can't pass and then finish the choke, there is a variety of ways to finish but on a basic level, raise the hips and pull your forearm up.", 
        "Others have answered this for you but I'll throw my two cents in as well since you asked me - or replied to my comment, or whatever the reddit protocol is :)\n\nSo we load up the video and skip ahead to about 0:25, that's where the guillotine starts and so far so good for Mr. Limon.\n\nIf you pause at 0:28 there's a problem starting. Diaz knows what is happening and puts his left leg on the outside of Limon's right leg. Seems like a minor detail but it's a huge deal (we'll see why shortly).\n\nAt 0:30 Limon is falling back into a familiar position. He wants to pull back and really start to work the choke. Diaz is in an unfavourable position but he's very calm about it. The reason he's so calm is because a) he's likely used to this, and b) he has a *lot* of escape options available - many stemming from the simple fact that he got that left leg to the outside of Limon's right leg.\n\nAround 0:31 to 0:33 Limon is trying to adjust. What he *wants* to do is drop back and get his legs wrapped around Diaz's back - as though he was in closed guard. He wants to do this because it traps Diaz in a very bad spot and allows Limon to really work the guillotine. Limon attempts to get his legs around Diaz by trying to squeak his right leg out but Diaz steps high and blocks it at the knee - beautiful \"sense\" to be sure. He makes it look like effortless defense because he's further ahead than Limon, even though he's the one being threatened with a choke. That minor detail at 0:28 where Diaz got his leg to the outside of Limon's has now essentially nullified the choke.\n\n0:35 it's over. Diaz is in side control. Now, the crux of your question, why does this matter. The short answer is that it's nearly impossible to choke someone out in that position. You can squeeze until you're blue in the face but you're not going to constrict blood or air circulation from that angle. Diaz's trachea is protected by virtue of being on the opposite side of the angle of Limon's elbow and his carotid arteries can't both be pinched off from a squeeze originating behind the neck. Diaz can pretty much sit here until Limon squeezes his arm into exhaustion.\n\nMy post above jokingly reflects a common mistake of new BJJ practicioners as well as casual fight fans and tough-guy wannabes. People get a hold of a person's head and they think it's a trophy or treasure never to be relinquished. Unfortunately, in this case, it's a useless trophy. Yeah, he has Diaz's head but he lost position, is squeezing for no gain, will soon be mounted, and ultimately lose the fight.\n\nYou can see around 0:40 that Diaz is quite content to stay in side control while Limon squeezes his head and is effortlessly improving his position at virtually no cost. He's in no real danger of being submitted, Limon is tying up his own hands leaving Diaz free to position himself for a full mount.\n\nBetween 0:40 and 0:43 you see Limon recognize the danger here and he switches his hips to try to use his right leg to wrap Diaz's left leg and pull him back into a wonky half guard. Did you notice his mistake though? He's still holding on tight to that trophy head with his left so he can't properly defend side control. He's stuck in that \"I've gotta keep what I've got!\" mentality so badly that he's lost sight of the bigger picture.\n\n0:45 - 1:00 you can hear people telling Diaz to \"wait until he's (Limon) tired\" or \"wait until he's worn himself out\" something to that effect. It's true. It's hard to hold on and squeeze tight. You'll burn out your arms. From here Diaz pressures with knee-on-belly, Limon *finally* concedes the trophy but it's too late. He's tired, his position is awful, and Diaz mounts effortlessly for the finish. It's also worth mentioning that Limon's efforts to escape mount are woefully amateurish - he pretty much does everything wrong. Diaz is the *far* superior grappler here.\n\nIt's really a great illustration of a) Diaz's patient, calm, thoughtful, and aware jiu-jitsu, and b) a really, really, *really* common mistake people make when fighting. They grab onto \"something\" and refuse to let go even at the cost of losing the fight. Newbie BJJ mistake, you see it all the time in the gym. You see it even more in street fight videos. People grab that head and just hold on for dear life.\n\nHope that helped :)\n\n", 
        "Goddamn, I wish I had money to give you gold. This sub needs more people like you.", 
        "Awesome breakdown, thanks!", 
        "Sage and Nate have the frosty tip in common.", 
        "It's 2016 and Sage has no excuse.", 
        "Young Nate and Sage would be a helluva tag team duo in a local wrestling circuit", 
        "Condit too.", 
        "Probably the only thing they have in common haha", 
        "Many fell victim to guy-lights in the early 2000s (myself included) ", 
        "That armbar was super clean. Crazy how good he was at 16.", 
        "Dammmmm Diaz, back at it again with the white highlights. ", 
        "Still had his virgin nose. ", 
        "They don't get the reference (CM Punk interview, right?)\n", 
        "Hot blonde", 
        "I literally had the exact same hair in 2002, but I was 13.", 
        "Was it almost like Pancrase rules, not closed fists to the head?", 
        "Looks like the opponent may have been the same guy who was murdered back in 2014 in a love triangle.  Pretty sad:\n\nhttp://www.kerngoldenempire.com/news/top-stories/murder-trial-will-be-held-for-former-redlands-firefighter-accused-of-first-degree-murder", 
        "Damn that sucks, I had a coworker get murdered over something similar a couple years back, left behind a kid too. Such a waste over someone wanting to get their dick wet.", 
        "Well ain't that some shit", 
        "not the same guy", 
        "How can you tell? I think it could be the same guy. I found pictures of the victim.  If you shave the fighter in the video's head and add 10 years of normal weight gain, it could be him.  Plus, it happened to a guy in roughly the same geographic region.\n\nNevertheless, sad story for whomever it was.", 
        "Age, hairline, facial structure. Everything is off. His name isn't very unique for that area's demographics and size ", 
        "different robert limon, this guy would not be 38 in 2014", 
        "That. Hair. Though...", 
        "so he can shoot for take downs", 
        "Yeah, we call that \"well rounded\"", 
        "Something something fighting grownups.", 
        "Literally. He fought somebody's muscle head dad. A grown up if I've ever seen one. ", 
        "Who brought the baby?", 
        "so fucking cool.", 
        "Stockton slaps only?", 
        "I literally found this fight this morning after watching 18 year old Nick fight Chris Lytle and commented about his frosted tips lol", 
        "It's frustrating waiting for them to try popping your head out and risk cauliflower ear.", 
        "Love how Nick immediately goes over to the other side to talk shit after congratulating Nate. Some things never change.", 
        "The slaps are to protect your knuckles from breaking on an opponents skull.", 
        "Why does it say Gracie under his name?  Is that a style of combat?", 
        "Gracie Jiu Jitsu is a distinct style of BJJ, its the original style based on self defense. Modern BJJ is sport where as Gracie Jiu Jitsu focuses on how to use Jiu Jitsu to win an actual fight and not how to win at competition were no punches are allowed.", 
        "CESAR GRACIE JIU JITSU MOTHERFUCKER", 
        "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gracie_family\n\nGracie Jiu Jitsu I believe is where he was training and those schools are pretty much everywhere now it seems.", 
        "But ya I guess that is a style technically...", 
        "I love all the attention Nate is getting now.  Good on him.  Can't help but like the guy more and more with more videos we see of him.", 
        "Sage Northcutt in the background, sitting on his mother's knee.", 
        "Breast feeding on a chicken breast smoothie. ", 
        "And the standup style has been the same ever since. If it works it works.", 
        "Any wrestlers here? What could have Nate done to finish that shot? He was pretty deep in at 0:23 and had good posture but then ended up stretched out with his back perpendicular to the floor and getting sprawled on.   \nCut an angle perhaps? Step up one of his legs to close the distance and for more follow through?", 
        "Damn, Nate *has* been fighting grownups for a long time.", 
        "Since before Conor even existed.", 
        "You know Nate was tapping that ass. ", 
        "And thus the \"Stockton Slap\" was born...", 
        "You get that burrito Nate!", 
        "He doesn't look surprised, motherfuckers", 
        "frosted tips ftw", 
        "nate dawg!!", 
        "Quality post OP", 
        "Why thank you, figured not everyone had seen it yet", 
        "That hair though.", 
        "Early days of the #StoctonSlap", 
        "Whoever is the hyena screaming in the background please shut up.", 
        "This is why MMA gets a bad rap.\n\n\\#WelcomeToFightClub", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Well i can't imagine they called up the Athletic Commission and told them it was going to take place.\n\nYou think those scraps in the high street on a saturday night are legal too?", 
        "I wonder what deletedman said...", 
        "NOTHING!? D-don't worry about it.", 
        "Stop yelling at me :(", 
        "Its not illegal to have gym fights, well... depending on if you are selling tickets/charging entry and how that is done.\n\n If having \"fights\" in the gym was illegal then you would have a hard time even sparring people if you are going hard. This \"fight\" diaz is having isn't any harder than a hard spar, they just included open slaps. Sure, it happens to be two schools it looks like but other than that its nothing bad, not like they were beating each other into a bloody mess and refusing to tap, breaking arms and shit. It was for fun and training. Gyms put on these kind of \"smoker\" fights for people who aren't even \"amateur\" fighters yet. But liek I mentioned.... if you start charging people to come in, offer prizes for winners etc you are breaking laws. It's obviously illegal to gamble on them as well.... not that anyone would do that /s\n\nIt's really not illegal to go in the backyard and fight your friend either, assuming you both agreed to it and aren't disturbing the peace.\n\nSome places you can actually street fight a stranger and its nto illegal, assuming you both agreed to it and you didn't jsut punch them in the face for no reason.", 
        "Robert looks like a Gazelle. ", 
        "My family just got into ufc last january.  The one thing they love about the sport is that they get to see their dream fights happen sometimes within months.  Very little waiting, and they love that.  \n\nIn their short time watching they have seen several stars rise and fall, and see 2 or 3 dream fights.  To them the stuff happening now is nuts.  I keep telling them this is probably the best ufc has ever been and they are getting really really spoiled.  ", 
        "Pretty much this.  ", 
        "Just calling it \"Ultimate Fighting\" seems silly. \n\nI'm a black belt in Strikeforcing.\n\nI've been practicing a lot of world extreme cagefighting lately. ", 
        "Ha... Boxing so passe. The media doesn't even know Nate isn't a champion. I might be wrong but I don't think the UFC has a fighter that's bigger than Canelo Alvarez. ", 
        "Odd choice. Canelo Alvarez is not very big outside of boxing circles. Even GGG is a bigger name I think. ", 
        "Floyd mayweather said canelo was the future of boxing. So...... ", 
        "Floyd says a lot of things. \n\nAlthough I will retract my statement about GGG being bigger. He did 150,000k in PPV numbers last time, and Canelo/Cotto did 900k.\n\nStill, boxing is legitimately being consistently outdrawn by MMA right now for probably the first time ever. I wouldn't say boxing is dead, but the decline is real. Especially with no Floyd or Manny at the helm. ", 
        "It depends how you measure it. In social media currency, McG, Rousey, Jones, are all bigger as they have more followers on SM. ", 
        "The demise of boxing has been talked about forever in the media, especially American media. But that's mainly because with the except of Floyd there hasn't been a famous American champ for a while. But besides that Boxing is doing great all over the world. They are still doing big fights in England and in Europe. And in many other parts of the world mma is unknown. \n\nIf GGG/Canelo fight this september it will do a lot more sales than I think even UFC 200. ", 
        "Did he make that poster himself?", 
        "That's hand made quality right there", 
        "The poster department are gone back to doing a half ass job since McGregor is no longer king. ", 
        "That's a facebook fan page, not actually CM Punk", 
        "are those CM's real nips or is that shopped?", 
        "Strong gyno.", 
        "This made me laugh so hard ", 
        "His whole pudgy body is fucking hilarious. ", 
        "His name was Robert Paulson", 
        "The fight mma fans around the world have been dreaming of", 
        "Gall pulls out, McGregor takes fight at 170 on 11 days notice.", 
        "dey dont pro wrestle like I pro wrestle", 
        "If this was the first fight announced for UFC 200, I would cringe.  Fortunately this is fake.", 
        "Can you guys imagine if CM Punk went on a rampage through the WW division and became the GOAT :)", 
        "no", 
        "You must be fun.", 
        "At this stage, I'm actually preemptively secondhand embarrassed in anticipation for when he does get in the cage, like if he just completely shit the bed it's going to be so sad to watch and make the whole thing even more of a joke than it already is. \n\nHope he at least doesn't embarrass himself whenever it happens, people are going to be ruthless about it", 
        "FOTY. Straight up, you can come back here and thank me for predicting the future.", 
        "Oh man, I'm hoping it somehow miraculously turns into the biggest, bloodiest battle in UFC history, like Griffin/Bonnar or MacDonald/Lawler.  ", 
        "Woah. He has less muscle and far more body fat than I expected.", 
        "It's an old photo of him. He's lost a lot of fat since he stopped being on the road 350 days a year.", 
        "Ahhk, that makes sense. Got a link to a newer one?", 
        "now I am trawling the web for shirtless photos of cm punk. today is a weird day.", 
        "haha! you legend", 
        "Sorry but this is fake :/", 
        "CM Punk via 1st round sub.", 
        "Well, I agree it'll be a first round fight.", 
        "For now ", 
        "Is micky gall any good? Or is the ufc giving him a bum to beat?", 
        "Gall will straight up murder him. ", 
        "Good I was hoping the ufc didn't give him a bum", 
        "Don't get me wrong the kid shouldn't be in the ufc yet by any means but he has the skill advantage in every area over punk, he trains with real dudes, he has a UFC fight under his belt so he should have less nerves than Punk too. Hopefully casuals and WWE/F fans bet heavy on Punk and move the line. No such thing as easy money betting on MMA but this is easy money haha. ", 
        "You think he'll be favorite seriously? I just got into betting with diaz fight and if punk is favorite I'm getting paid again", 
        "He shouldn't be, and I don't think he will be. Odds-makers aren't stupid, but if enough casual money goes on Punks name then the line can narrow.", 
        "Mickey Gall is a -300 favorite. Punk is +230", 
        "Gall will smash him. ", 
        "Hypothetically, if this is real, would they put Punk on the main card?", 
        "Yeah, you're gonna have to pay to see this beat down.", 
        "if this is real, smart move by the ufc to put CM punk on that card... it'll bring more PPV buys from the WWE fan base", 
        "those promo pics were taken same time he was announced ... poster is fake gall himself put it out ... calling cm punk out for 200 a day or so ago ... so yes cm punk is fat he hadnt started his training yet", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Based on what?", 
        "My excitement for the card is only dampened by this development.", 
        "if he pulls out again cut CM.", 
        "Pretty sure this is fake", 
        "This is going to be hilarious.", 
        "CM Punk has confirmed the date of his execution  ", 
        "Only on fightpass", 
        "Look at this flabby fuck lol, at least Diaz has the excuse of no training camp, this guys been training for a year ", 
        "CM ain't doing shit with his sucked in gut and those flabby titties.", 
        "Why does this POS get to be on the ufc 200. that card top to bottom should be for fighters who have been fighting for the ufc for a while and deserve to be on that card not some washed up fake wresler who has got \"injured\". fuck CM punk i cant wait to see him lose and the ufc cuts him after losing to a 1-0 fighter.", 
        "I feel like Punk might accidentally choke himself out, a la Mac.", 
        "Soft-body motherfucker ain't got no shittt", 
        "I wish we could apply a temporary ban on CM Punk-related news. The excitement died down a while ago because his debut is taking forever. Once he actually starts fighting, lift the ban.", 
        "Man of his word. I like it.", 
        "Dude, it's fake.", 
        "OP delivered", 
        "Will probably still get slaped tough.", 
        "Yeah I respect him for following through. ", 
        "Yeah, I would have been angry of he didn't follow through. The tattoo is surprisingly big. He could have gotten a really small one. ", 
        "I'm sure you being angry factored big into his decision to get the tattoo.", 
        "You may be right. Between this and Kenny's recent scandal it wouldn't be a good look for their podcast. Thanks, friend. ", 
        "Speaking of Kenny, did you see that pic he Instagram'ed of his new 209 tattoo?", 
        "No... ", 
        "\"Angry\"", 
        "My personal hope was that Anik would get a huge 209 'thug life' style stomach peice... But respect for manning up and following through.", 
        "I didn't really think one way or the other on him, but this definitely tilted me towards liking. For sure on size, that tat is real, and dark.  Def not a painless one to remove.  I thought he'd get an outline, not solid filled in 209 lol. ", 
        "I actually felt like it should have been bigger. Yes, it's cool that he followed through, but still. If it's public and permanent, why get a small, generic font text when you could get a 209 sleeve with cool fight scenes and shit inserted?\n\nOverall, I give it 9/10 on follow-through and 4/10 on bombasticity.", 
        "hahah the whole sleeve comment is amazing, and hysterical to think about jon doing that.  ", 
        "Yeah, should have gone with a full 209 neck tattoo. Just across the neck, right under the chin. Like Warmachine.", 
        "209 right under his eye. But the 0 is a tear.", 
        "The word you are looking for is 'throat'.", 
        "I used to really dislike Jon Anik because of his poor commentating. I still dislike Jon Anik because of his poor commentating. But this was a really cool thing of him to do, I did not expect him to follow through. ", 
        "What's wrong with his commentating?", 
        "He seems like a good guy,  I kinda feel bad for hating on him but his commentating is just that bad. Can't help it,  otherwise I kinda like him him now. ", 
        "I like Anik a lot as a studio host. But yeah as PBP he's not the greatest. Would love if the UFC could somehow get Mauro.", 
        "He's a great host, no doubt, but I think Povich has other things on hs mind.", 
        "I was thinking about that recently. I have no problems with him when he's not ringside.", 
        "PBP? What does that stand for? Best I can do is Professional Broadcaster Person, which I think might be incorrect. ", 
        "Play By Play", 
        "Gah. Should have been able to get that. Thanks.", 
        "Using acronyms is a horrible way to get a point across. Don't feel bad, the poster is an asshole. ", 
        "Lol. Not to mention, I wouldn't call an MMA broadcaster a play by play person, anyway. That could just be my personal way of thinking, though. Obviously, it gets the point across.", 
        "The commentating team (apparently that's a real word since there's no red squiggle under it) typically consists of a play-by-play (eg Goldie, although with his own tard-infused spin on it) and a color commentator (eg Joe).", 
        "Oh Sure,   I understand that. I was just recognizing that, in my mind, when I think play by play guy, apparently I think primarily of  the big 4 American sports, which have actual 'plays' to varying degrees and I think of guys like Michaels, Costas, Nantz, etc.  Which in turn is why I said that I should have gotten the PBP acronym easily, but I guess I had never associated the term play by play with MMA. Probably due to the intense, non-stop nature of the sport.\n\n However, now that you have me thinking about it, I am realizing that the format is pretty universal regardless of the sport, and for sure that Goldie and Rogan fit the pattern.\n\nThe point of me explaining all of that? I haven't a fucking clue.", 
        "Yea not like that Joe Riggs fella, didn't even cut his dick off like he said he would what a bitch. ", 
        "Or that redditor that promised to take a plane to Dana's house and commit suicide with him.\n\nLike what the fuck bro if you can't keep your word don't go around making promises.\n", 
        "What about that other guy who promised to get a tattoo or something on here? He said he was going through with it last I checked..can't remember his name though. ", 
        "/u/shasneknasty WHERE U AT MOTHERFUCKER", 
        "He got gold for it tho", 
        "I also got gold for telling Shane Carwin I didn't know what the fuck he was saying\n\nWhat a weird sub at times man ", 
        "Oh shit, it's Smithy! Kind of strange seeing another Wredditor \"out in public.\" ", 
        "http://imgur.com/X9kyTP4 I got gold for this \ud83d\udc81\ud83c\udffb", 
        "That's kinda spooky, bro...", 
        "That was actually great lol", 
        "This has been a great little side story to UFC 196.", 
        "The post-fight entertainment of UFC 196 could be a ppv by itself", 
        "one Jon Anik will never forget", 
        "Literally ", 
        "English is hard", 
        "or ragret", 
        "One he cannot forget", 
        "Nate said in a post-fight interview that Anik didn't have to get it so...", 
        "That's nice of him, but it's kinda aside from the point. He didn't wager Nate.", 
        "I wasn't the biggest fan of the brothers, but I feel like every Diaz event is a gift that keeps on giving", 
        "You are not wrong about this.", 
        "The herpes of MMA.", 
        "Just Stockton things", 
        "Can confirm, am Stocktonian. ", 
        "Im so sorry", 
        "derailing the convo here, but is it as thug as it's made out to be? comparing it to, say, the sheltered norwegian west coast; could i safely leave my fjord to roll in stockton?", 
        "It had terrible gang problems at one point, that's much better. But there also parts of it that are crazy fancy. For example, the owner of the San Diego Chargers lives there. \n\nI myself always lived in a fine part of town. I knew people who were victims of crime and violence. But I was never involved in anything terrible during the 23 years I lived there. Although I did see one person murdered, it was pretty gruesome. It was a deranged husband who shot and killed his wife who was leaving him. So it wasn't a random act of violence or anything. ", 
        "how did they manage to counteract the gang activity? i guess in the general LA area they haven't been as effective? always odd with that rich-poor transition from one block to the next. \n\ngruesome stuff, dude. good that you've steered clear!\n\n", 
        "I honestly couldn't tell you for sure. The police force grew pretty large at one point, they focused a lot of efforts on counciling kids, schools taught us to avoid gangs, etc etc. I doubt it was any one thing. \n\nI was always too involved in sports, church, school, and video games to have time for a gang :P", 
        "it'll clear up, buddy", 
        "There is no reason not to be a fan of them once you look into their life a bit. They are the realist motherfuckers in the game.", 
        "Eh, the drunk driving/not showing up for media appearences kind of took a bit of the appeal away for me tbh. Same with Nate deliberately missing weight.", 
        "https://www.instagram.com/p/BCytu1OOPoy/?taken-by=natediaz209\n\nNate approves.", 
        "Haha some one in the comments told nate he's gonna lose his belt to lawler. Wtf.", 
        "Watch you say bro, those dudes trane ufc.", 
        "He's talking about the Mcgregor belt. Come on man, keep up!", 
        "Man I live in a smallish town in Montana  (some 30,000) and one of my blue collar, red blooded, 40-something coworkers bought the card. Mma is getting big, largely due to mcgregors celebrity. He bought it to, \"watch mcgregor get slapped around.\"\n\nEdit: lots of new eyes just on the past week. I hope it continues to grow a d ppl stick with it", 
        "So cool of him, especially as Nate gave him a pass.\n\nhttps://streamable.com/ynn4", 
        "I love how happy he is in that interview. Positive vibes all around", 
        "He comes off as such a great guy, I hate the UFC for making them be the bad person", 
        "Aww... Nate is so cute.", 
        "Haha great vid.", 
        "Damn Nate is so personable in interviews", 
        "Any chance you have a link to the entire interview? ", 
        "/u/Blonders1 linked it [here] (https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/49w6kw/jon_anik_got_the_209_tattoo/d0vfunj)\n\n", 
        "got a link to the full interview? \nThanks :+)", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Up8qLjVmG3c", 
        "appreciate it bud, thanks!", 
        "Damn, does Conor even have a right hand?  He made Nate look like Two Face.  I don't see one lump of damage on the right side.", 
        "Good point...but the damage is on the right side of Nate's face.", 
        "He meant right as when you're looking at him not Nate's right.", 
        "When you say someone \"broke their right arm\", do you mean their left arm? If not, why should it be any different if you say \"right side of their face\"?", 
        "He said on the right side...", 
        "Right. He said there is no damage to the right side of Nate's face, but if you saw Nate's face after the fight, you would notice that all the damage was on the right side of Nate's face; it's the left side of Nate's face that is unscathed. Then, you said it was a reference to the viewer's right, which is just weird and makes no sense, like If you said someone's right arm was broken because, when that person faces you, their left arm (the broken one) in on *your* right hand side.", 
        "...dude, really?", 
        "..which would come from Conors left.", 
        "Conors only strength is his left.", 
        "It's true. The Connerbros hate it, but he's won all but 2 of fights with his left hand. Conner has commented numerous times about how his opponents can't handle his left, yet all the Connerbros think of him as this incredibly well-rounded fighter who excels in any and all areas.", 
        "No. Its just wrong. He establishes range with his kicks. He also has that kick that rogan loves to the knee and he sets up his left with a right jab and uppercut.  His best tool is his left but if its all he has he wouldn't have made it to the ufc", 
        "Everything is used to set up the left. His left is what's won him every fight. Watch his highlights, watch all his fights. He wins with his left hand. Everything else in his stand-up is used to set up his left. He's never had success with any other tool.", 
        "youre an idiot, he's a southpaw who has a big left hand, he still throws good left right combinations, his kicking game is underrated when he isnt trying that capoeira shit, kicks won him the mendes fight imo, left may of finished it but the body kicks are what undid chad", 
        "Right. Everything else is just to set up and cover for his left, but without that he would just be average instead of good.", 
        "He wasn't lying about that left hand, but Nate took it like a champ.", 
        "The Diaz brothers have some of the best jaws in the UFC", 
        "It was just a dynamic of that particular fight. Conor actually has a nice right jab. He just had a hard time landing it on Nate.", 
        "I gotta watch it again. For some reason i remember him not throwing it. It looked like he was trying to throw a short uppercut to keep his jaw up", 
        "Conor definitely was spamming his left trying to knock Nate out. He ended up pawing the air more than getting his right off. It's like Nate flawlessly stayed long and out of reach on that side but Conor was catching him just because he was throwing it so much.", 
        "I believe that Conor was mainly throwing that uppercut with his right. It doesn't appear that Conor uses his right for hooks or straights as often as his left.", 
        "Most of Conors uppercuts were left uppercuts. His coach was telling him to use the right, but he kept using the left. May have cost him the fight in the end when he got wobbled when trying to throw that left upper.", 
        "As much as Nate seems to not like dealing with media, he gets it. He understands that media members gotta make picks and how to play the media game. I mean he was on a reality show lol", 
        "He actually said he respects that little midget leprechaun he choked out for doing what he does on building the hype train.", 
        "You're not cool just because you anonymously insult someone too famous to notice you (or take you seriously if he did,) in a copycat manner.\n\nI award you no points.", 
        "I will only insult those personally when they talk shit. Especially that \"cholo\" remark that irked me. (I'm Mexican).\n\nHe crossed the line trying to hype his fight up bringing in race into the mix especially making fun of the good Nathan has done in his community. \n\nFuck off you circle jerking piss ant.", 
        "Well I'm glad you cleared that up. ", 
        "Ooh... Let's hope he knew he didn't have to before he followed through.", 
        "[Jon Anik watching this after he got his tattoo](http://i.imgur.com/I8TDLRq.jpg)", 
        "Damn Nate should be Nick's PR guy.", 
        "Nate has been straight killing it with the media. ", 
        "\"don't be talking shi-\"\n\n", 
        "As someone from the UK, this really cut off too soon.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Up8qLjVmG3c\n\nJake Shields is competing in Polaris in the UK and Nate is coming with him.", 
        "> Jake Shields is competing in Polaris in the UK\n\nNice. I might go take Nate out to lunch :p", 
        "I like this side of Nate Diaz", 
        "He is usually like this after a win.", 
        "Goddammit, why is Nate so likable?", 
        "Because he's sincere. Because he does the sport for the sport and not for gains.", 
        "just last month this subreddit had nothing but hate for the man. ", 
        "That's the tide. Imagine me as a Jones fanboy. I probably lost a few hundred karma saying positive stuff about him from the time he rekt Shogun to his accident. Suddenly Jones is likeable here, though there's still a sizable minority who can't get past his antics. ", 
        "As a conor fan I wanna dislike him so much but fucking christ, hes slowly turning into one of my favorite fighters", 
        "Diaz brothers are just amazing. Try to remember, this is the lesser of the 2. The other one's even better.", 
        "As a fan of both it's because they have a lot in common. ", 
        "Let the slap flow through you homie", 
        "Nice and slappy", 
        "Balloon animals, dude. Anyone clowning on those things is just a Bozo.", 
        "Right cross, left hooker with a heart of gold.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "he switches to orthodox to throw it ", 
        "Fixed for southpaw- Left Cross, Right hooker with a heart of gold", 
        "He's the classic loveable scamp. ", 
        "I have no idea why he isn't named Spike, or Butch.\n\nGive the street kid with the heart of gold, but a serious mean streak, the right name...", 
        "This really is a great description. ", 
        "He's the Bart Simpson of the MMA world.  ", 
        "If Bart Simpson was also a professional ass-kicker.", 
        "Holy shit. I have never thought of him as Bart. But he is fucking Bart Simpson. Bart Simpson who went and got himself a legit gracie black belt and came back to take Nelson out. Mind. Blown. ", 
        "Eat my shorts, motherfucker.", 
        "Hahaha amazing.", 
        "Perfect.", 
        "Damn Nate is so personable in interviews", 
        "Completely different than Nick ", 
        "Can't stand Nick. Nate is different.", 
        "[This is not true.](https://m.youtube.com/watch?list=FLamIzbhoCET6gA6OMIYMCUQ&index=63&v=36YMvdgOZFE) skip ahead to the first question. It's a good conference and shows that Nick likes to talk...he hasn't been in the limelight since his suspension is all...", 
        "[Nick makes GSP look like such a goon in his video] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36YMvdgOZFE&index=63&list=FLamIzbhoCET6gA6OMIYMCUQ)", 
        "I've never really watched these UFC press conferences until recently. But it was pretty refreshing to hear GSP and Diaz say how they truly felt about each other and everything rather than only 100% shit talking. \n\nWhy it does it feel like the media is always trying to make it seem like fighters hate Dana also lol. ", 
        "Dana can be a douche at times. Last year he promised Meisha Tate a shot after she defeated Jessica Eye, then he said 'No, it's Holly's time'. He even shat all over Holly's manager by saying he forced her to fight immediately instead of waiting or Ronda. ", 
        "Yeah you're right. I just read his Wiki and he's been extremely vocal about his feelings on a lot of fighters. I mean, some of it is justifiable (breaching contacts, making other deals behind his back, etc...) but some of it is just shit talking. \n", 
        "Wolf tickets baby", 
        "\"I've never walked away from any fight that was less than two people\" haha", 
        "If he's in the mood or isnt forced into giving an interview, he's actually just fine. I remember seeing a video of an MMA fan chatting with him at a triathlon and he was very outgoing and personable.", 
        "I think the media shit-disturbers make the interviews/press conferences hostile for him.\n\nWhen people just ask him honest questions about fighting and shit he's warm, friendly, and open.  I don't get the sense he enjoys verbal dances with instigators.", 
        "Nick used to be super talkative in interviews but then I think it was Mayhem or someone who made fun of him", 
        "Yeah, well who's laughing now motherfucker?!?", 
        "It's a good thing people take Mayhem seriously", 
        "Whatever happened to that guy?", 
        "He died ", 
        "he's fighting josh barnett in italy. ", 
        "He's fighting Josh Barnett in the Colosseum bro.", 
        "That's good for him, I like the guy but when he wasn't fighting he went crazy and I legit worried for him lol", 
        "Guys been in all kinds of trouble. There was one point where the cops showed up to his house with a warrant, and he barricaded himself inside and live tweeted the whole thing.\n\nhttp://www.mmafighting.com/2016/2/11/10968048/jason-mayhem-miller-arrested-for-suspicion-of-dui-in-irvine-calif", 
        "Always seemed like a nice guy with serious mental health issues.", 
        "I was a big fan of his when he was on The Ultimate Fighter opposite Michael Bisping. Seemed like a real down to Earth guy who really cared about his fighters. I think it was all downhill from there when he lost to Bisping ...", 
        "Hell of a bjj guy too. What he was doing to shields was amazing", 
        "Yeah, I actually met him a couple times through a cousin of mine. He was always a nice dude and fun to be around, but you could always tell there was something \"off\" about him. I really hope he can get the help he needs, because he's a genuinely good guy, and I don't won't want to see a headline one day saying he was shot by the cops or something due to his mental health problems. ", 
        "Wouldn't surprise me.", 
        "I'm genuinely curious if his mental health problems are due to blows to the head.  ", 
        "What an ironic thing to say considering  it came from \"im as stable as a one legged couch\" mayhem", 
        "People forget how quick and clever Mayhem was with the shit talk.", 
        "\"Dontbescaredhomie.com... I stole it\"", 
        "Mayhem \"Ass Naked in a Church\" Miller", 
        "I like the multiple nicknames since  mayhem is already a nickname.. Jason \"\"\"im as stable as a 1 legged couch\" \"ass naked in a church\" \"Mayhem\"\" Miller", 
        "Legend has it that every time he commits a felony, he gains a nickname.\n\n", 
        "I really love Mayhem and these jokes really sting", 
        "Nick'll spout his entire stream of conscious thought all in one go, but he needs to get comfortable enough to do it.", 
        "Always seemed like possible Aspergers to me, tbh. \n\nedit: Just to be clear, I am in NO way trying to ridicule him or those who cope with Aspergers, I'm just saying he's always seemed to be someone who looked like he fell somewhere on that spectrum. Love both the Diaz brothers. ", 
        ">Nick'll spout his entire stream of conscious thought all in one go\n\nHe'll cover 30 different topics clocking in a 15 minute rant, and not even answer the question that was asked.", 
        "What always impresses about Nick is that while he's a little 'all over the place' in some interviews, and will do just what you said, topic for topic he's really insightful and articulate.  Even some of his somewhat flippant answers have kernals of derp truth.\n\n\"*I didn't get any house-buying classes in school*\" [paraphrased]... Ok, it's kinda funny, but you know what? Part of the reason places like Stockton are so fucked is a lack of personal financial planning/knowledge, leaving poor people undefended against economic predators.\n\nHe's quite analytical, IMO, with an awesome ability to turn a phrase.  A better time in school and he coulda been anything he wanted.", 
        "This is also my Mum.", 
        "The best is when he rambles on and then remembers that he is in front of an audience talking and immediately clams up. ", 
        "'you aint fought any hitters george'", 
        "It's somewhat adorable", 
        "Honestly I think I'd do the same. When I get anxious in front of people and I start rambling and opening up, once I'm done I'm like \"WTF did I just I say I'm a fucking dumbass dipshit weirdass fuckwing\" and just shut off. Nick's got pretty bad social anxiety.", 
        "Fuckwing?\n\nI'm exceedingly surprised, motherfuckers!", 
        "Yah he will just talk and talk and talk. Then be like \"what am I talking about again? \" lol", 
        "All that weed man", 
        "I think it really depends what the terms of the interview are. I think when he's not surrounded by the media, he's pretty sociable and articulate. He was a chatterbox on Chael Sonnen's podcast, spending like 5 uninterrupted minutes talking about his carbon fiber bike and how it got stolen. You know you're talking a bunch when Chael can't get a word in ", 
        "i think hes worried about being taken out of context and having smear campaigns done.", 
        "What I've noticed is that he's more talkative with people he likes (Rogan, Sonnen) whereas he's more nervous with media (look at his interview with Ariel Helwani after Nate beat Johnson) and he starts off nervous but warms up", 
        "That's how it is with most quiet people", 
        "I like to imagine that Jon just watched this video for the first time and yelled \"FUCK\"", 
        "I'd piss myself laughing if that turned out to be the case. ", 
        "Be careful what you promise to do.", 
        "He's an honorary American ninja now. Fair fucks to him", 
        "[Stockton Motherfucker](http://i.imgur.com/DHOVJnC.png)", 
        "That's great lmfao", 
        "YEah this is a keeper", 
        "https://media.giphy.com/media/l2JJuQ4tYjXTmKqdy/giphy.gif", 
        "This definitely deserves more karma", 
        "He is just a dirty reposter.", 
        "ahh dammit, he got me :/", 
        "Lol when he turns into Sage", 
        "As awesome as that is... It bothers me that he's holding the belt since he didn't win any belt for that fight.", 
        "Dude they made Nate go Super Saiyan God. Thats some nice attention to detail right there", 
        "holy shit..", 
        "LOL Why does Nate turn into Rick though?", 
        "[Latest transformation](http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/dragonball/images/6/66/FriezavsGoku2.png/revision/latest?cb=20151023100432) on the new Dragon Ball show. ", 
        "I realize; he still looks like Rick though.", 
        "That's horrible. They should have never went past 3.\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Golden Frieza. The fuck?", 
        "I can hear nate screaming \"WHAT!\"", 
        "For some reason he sounds like Lil' John though. ", 
        "/r/noisygifs", 
        "True. It's like it's ringing in my ears... ", 
        "Haha. Wow! The production quality of that gif is insane. ", 
        "The silent \"Whaaaat?\" is awesome ", 
        "/r/highqualitygifs\n", 
        "God bless the internet", 
        "That's significantly larger than I expected it to be if he did end up getting one. Props to Anik , that shit is hilarious.", 
        "On reading your comment, it just hit me as to how large that is. I didn't think much of it on the first look. Now, I'm thinking 'damn, that *is* rather big'. ", 
        "I was thinking of what I would get if I was John Anik and it would have been a small sylish 209 just above my hip. This is crazy big ", 
        "Bigger than I'd expect, for sure. ", 
        "Sounds like a bitch tattoo", 
        "This is a respectable size - nice!", 
        "Is that what you said to Conor?", 
        "Of course - I can't kick a man when he's down.", 
        "I would say he just became 20% more charismatic.", 
        "20.9%...", 
        "Oh lord, glad he went through it. Now when is Paige shaving her head again", 
        "After 196 dana would sit down and cry of another one of his stars went off the deep end", 
        "Mad respect to Anik. I hope the tattoo slowly morphs him and his next broadcast he just talks like a Diaz bro.", 
        "He starts smoking a huge amount of weed, and begins dropping f-bombs on fox commentary", 
        "One of us! One of us!", 
        "What an absolute legend.\nJon Anik totally went up a few notches in my book. \nFollowed through on his word. Because fuck it the publicity is worth it. And it makes for a cool story . \nUFC 196 just keeps delivering ", 
        "I'm still waiting for Joe Riggs to chop off his dick.", 
        ".... And throw it away. That's the part of the comment that made it gold. ", 
        "Knowing Riggs, he'll just shoot it off accidentally.", 
        "[*Gluten is everywhere!*](https://youtu.be/pbMq7Pme5pk?t=10s)", 
        "zing", 
        "Shots... [*fired*](http://cow.org/csi/)", 
        "Fucking heart attacks", 
        "bang", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "right in the pisser", 
        "Plop.", 
        "Context?", 
        "Jon Anik is a commentator for the UFC. He said if Nate Diaz won against Conor McGregor he would get a \"209\" tattoo. 209 is the area code of Stockton, California which is where Nate Diaz is from. \n\nNate Diaz beat Conor McGregor at UFC 196.\n\nRight when the post-right press conference was about to wrap up Nate Diaz said  \"Aye.. aye... yo...Jon Anik better get a motherfucking 209 tattoo or I'll beat his little ass\" or something like that. \nJon Anik got a 209 tattoo. \n\nEdit: changed \"zipcode\" to \"area code\" ", 
        "209 is the AREA code.\n\nSource: grew up near Stockton. Phone has a 209 area code.", 
        "Nice work, explained it perfectly, well almost perfectly", 
        "Area code. Zips in the US are 5 digit. ", 
        "He was just looking for a reason to get a 209 tat. props though", 
        "Is that his forearm or calf?", 
        "Oooooo he got a hairy dick! ", 
        "Forearm. ", 
        "It's his dick.", 
        "Anik puts the 'O' in 2-0-9.", 
        "I'VE BEEN FUCKING INCORRECTLY FOR YEARS  ", 
        "Awesome pics. Great size. Look thick. Solid. Tight.", 
        "Good girth.", 
        "Wookie must run in his family.", 
        "This just won't ever go away lol", 
        "[IMGUR Mirror.](http://i.imgur.com/yG7ru52.jpg)", 
        "Thanks. Too bad it's too late, I already waded into the grammatical shitshow that is ufc on Twitter. ", 
        "You are a saint, sir. No twitter at work; imgur works fine.", 
        "I'm not surprised ", 
        "Motherfuckers", 
        "First time ever that I really gotta give it up to Jon Anik.\n\nYou gotta respect a man who honors his word.", 
        "The best part of this isn't even that he got the tattoo; the best part is the location and size. He got a tattoo on his fucking forearm that you could discern from 40 feet away. He could've gotten a tiny 209 on his back or his thigh and nobody would've said shit. Instead he gets it on the most visible place of his body other than his face/neck area.\n\nedit: Ah, didn't realize the initial bet specified it'd be on his arm.\n\nRespeck.", 
        "When he made the bet he actually specified itd be on the inside of his forearm.\n\nHe definitely coulda made it smaller/not filled it in all the way and nobody woulda been mad though.\n\nProps to him", 
        "I think if he lost he said \"I'll get a 209 tattoo on my arm\" on the podcast. But you're right. He got that shit nice and clear.", 
        "That's BS. He's covering up a 0 and a 3. 02093 is the postal code for Dublin, Ireland. ", 
        "For whatever reason '02093, *motherfucker*' just doesn't have the same ring to it...", 
        "Respect mother fucker", 
        "Respect, Anik.", 
        "Props to Jon Anik. Gave him a lot of shit. But this will cement his ties to one of the greatest UFCs ever. Great job. Awesome. ", 
        "hall of fame worthy shit", 
        "I may not agree with him at times, but goddamn do I respect him.", 
        "Is that his first ink?", 
        "Yes, according to the latest episode of his podcast this is his first.", 
        "Nice. Thanks for the info.", 
        "Respect ", 
        "hespect", 
        "damn you got that up quick\n", 
        "that's some real man shit right there Jon Anik. Respect", 
        "I really thought he was just going to get a decent tattoo on his arm and just get \"209\" hidden into the tat.\n\nWhat he did is incredible.", 
        "That's what I was thinking. I mean that's what I would've done. Gotta give props to Anik. He may be part robot but he's more of a man than I.", 
        "I'd just like to take this moment to remind everyone that Paige VanZant still hasn't shaved her head like she promised.\n", 
        "hespect", 
        "Lol I respect anyone who keeps their word. Props to Anik ", 
        "Good on ya mate", 
        "isnt there some guy on /r/mma that bet/promised to get a tattoo as well? then even made a second post to remind everyone he was going to do it?", 
        "Yes it was u/shasneknasty", 
        "I hope Anik makes more of these wagers. \n\nRDA beats lawler? Brazilian flag tattoo.\n\nFaber beats cruz? Sacramento supreme court emblem emblazoned on his back.\n\nDC beats Jones? A chocolate cake pissing over a coke straw on his ass.\n\nEventually he will be like the Nascar jersey of bad decisions.\n\n", 
        "And this is why you never make tattoo bets on MMA fights people ", 
        "And this is why you never make tattoo bets ~~on MMA fights people~~", 
        "Nah, it's totally cool to do it for skill based things like who can hock the biggest loogie ", 
        "Gangster.", 
        "A man of his word. :)", 
        "That's real ninja shit!", 
        "To the top with this thread. Props to Anik. I love a good degenerate gambler story.", 
        "Fair play to this guy, sticking to his word!", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers.", 
        "Man of his word. Respect to Jon Anik. Now he can roam the 209 with Nate.", 
        "Gotta respect this - he's a man who takes his word seriously.  And that's gotta be a good thing in his profession.", 
        "I'M NOT SURPRISED, MOTHERFUCKERS\n\nBut seriously though, it's not worth getting jumped in norcal for something as stupid as a tiny tattoo. Respect to Jon.", 
        "Still waiting for Paige's Haircut....", 
        "New found respect for this guy now....  well done!", 
        "Okay, I won't make fun of him AS much now.", 
        "Nate is not surprised, motherfucker. ", 
        "let it be known this day, march 10, 2016, that Jon anik ain't no bitch.", 
        "OP DELIVERED!!!", 
        "Stayed true to his word. ", 
        "Props", 
        "He must not wear shorts much.", 
        "It's his forearm.", 
        "Still not gonna follow his bitch ass on social media or whatever.", 
        "Why wouldnt you just link to the instagram page lol", 
        "Justin Bieber needs to get one now.", 
        "[all that can be said](https://youtu.be/CTqpNQnc7ro?t=91)", 
        "Now eat your shoe, Brian Stann. ", 
        "Fucking badass. He could've pipped half an inch of it under his fucking toe or some shit. But no, he went deep. Respect!", 
        "Hey my username is vaguely relevant", 
        "WOW Probably will slow down my Jon Anik hate now. ", 
        "Your move, [Joe Riggs.](https://streamable.com/pbg9)", 
        "Pretty baller move.", 
        "For some odd reason, I believe this will be very good for his career in the UFC. Fighters will like him more.", 
        "I dont know how some people round stockton gonna feel about this", 
        "its probably a henna tat", 
        "Not probably. No redness nor does it look real at all.", 
        "Ballsy location, I can't wait to hear about him describing it to the in-laws", 
        "Stockton, motherfuckers! Represent!", 
        "WHAT!", 
        "Nate actually said in one of the post fight interviews that he was kidding and he didn't really have to get it.. maybe he didn't hear that one?", 
        "Honestly even though Nate gave him a pass no one else would. People would be pissed if he didn't get the tattoo", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No no, we like him now. That's how this is gonna work. ", 
        "[**@Jon_Anik**](https://twitter.com/Jon_Anik):\n>[2016-03-10 23:43:02 UTC](https://twitter.com/Jon_Anik/status/708075723064549376)\n\n>Just posted a photo [*instagram.com*](https://www.instagram.com/p/BCypbFamTry/)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/49w6kw%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "I thought this bot made an imgur link, or is that another?", 
        "Hespect.", 
        "What does 209 mean?", 
        "Stockton motherfucker whut! ", 
        "It's the area code for Stockton, CA.  In the MMA world, it's come to mean the Diaz brothers.\n\nIn case you aren't American, phone numbers start with 3 numbers that indicate the region, and 209 is the regional code for Stockton.", 
        "Jon Anik Fox MVP, Journalist GOAT, Respect.", 
        "After the first one its all down hill. He'll look like Rogan before long. ", 
        "Aw now we don't get to see Nate Diaz v Jon Anik at UFC 200.", 
        "if Anik wins that fight I'll get 617 tattooed on my ass", 
        "Respect to him, If I was him I put the tattoo on my hip so I show proof and never talk about it again.", 
        "This is why you never do tattoo bets no matter what. ", 
        "I thought he said he was going to put it on his forehead. That would have been hilarious during his post fight interviews.", 
        "Hespect", 
        "209th comment, Stockton Motherfucker!!", 
        "Now he needs to go across the top of that tattoo with a \"420\"\n\n4 2 0\n   0\n   9", 
        "Much respect for him doing this. He said it, and did it. ", 
        "That's cool of him", 
        "There is no way...", 
        "Dave Anik has my hespect", 
        "He should have done a Paige VanZant on this one. It's not like we are going to tease him any less.", 
        "Big fan of this. Good on ya Anik.\n", 
        "Really surprised you'd do something like that...", 
        "always thought Anik was a punk but this is his first step in gaining some respect. props for following through.", 
        "Context?", 
        "He promised to get a 209 tattoo if Nate Diaz beat McGregor. 209 is the area code from Stockton, CA where Diaz is from.", 
        "So when is Paige gonna shave her head?\n", 
        "Did thug shave hers for her then beat her ass", 
        "I'm new to the MMA scene, what does 209 mean?", 
        "The number 209 is the area code for Stockton, California where the Diaz brothers have lived their whole lives. ", 
        "Diaz 1,2,5 stockton mutha fucka", 
        "Fucking respect to Anik.", 
        "Dont bet against a Diaz Jon u fool", 
        "Did you just link to a twitter link to instagram? Why not just link to instagram. ", 
        "Well shit, He has every right to say whatever the fuck he wants now.", 
        "Respect ", 
        "kept his word. respect.", 
        "Nate already said after the fight he was just playing around, he doesn't want Anik to get that tattoo. Sounds more like Anik wanted to get it from the beginning.", 
        "\"Don't be talkin sh-.. Don't be talkin.\"", 
        "wasn't he supposed to get a tattoo on the head?", 
        "That is a big tattoo I didnt expect it mad respect lol. I still dont like Jon ANik as a commentator, but got to say he earned some respect now. Crazy stuff lol.", 
        "I would've gotten it really small and not so bold. Props to Anik ", 
        "A: Does this now mean Jon Anik is cool? B: Can he cover a Diaz fight and stay unbiased in his assessment?", 
        "It's all pretty silly but good that he kept his word.  He'll know to keep his fool mouth shut next time.  ", 
        "I really hope he follows through with the UK statement at the end, I'd travel to anywhere in the British Isles for that.", 
        "Ok.", 
        "[It's on his forearm](http://imgur.com/8zkmjMa).", 
        "LOL, good man.", 
        "#noragrets", 
        "Would have rather seen a full back tat of the drawing Nate posted of him giving Bieber the Stockton slap.", 
        "Stupid move by Jon, but honestly, it's really nice to see someone finally follow through on their promises.", 
        "Probably the most entertaining thing he's done since MMA Live.", 
        "Anik just gained a lot of respect on the internet XD.", 
        "Respect.", 
        "That tattoo could get Anik a beating or much worse, in the wrong hood.", 
        "I wonder if Nate's surprised.", 
        "Looks like his little ass ain't going to get whipped ", 
        "HAHA...good for him.  And good for him tattoo removal surgery has come a long way.", 
        "That's right motherfucker 209...and tattoos...and shit...where you at George...bitchass...whatever...\n\n", 
        "209 represent!!", 
        "Copy that, Kenny Florian!", 
        "Dude its a fucking no brainer for him to get this tattoo.  He's branding himself.  Now fans like him a little, he's attached to a now big name fighter, it increases his exposure, its a good story, its fun, its just numbers, etc etc.  Excellent PR move.", 
        "Henna tats are cool.", 
        "Cheap ass tattoo", 
        "He's now safe from an ass whoopin!", 
        "A true hero", 
        "yay im so happy   /s", 
        "who the hell is this shmoehawk? and why does anyone care about his tattoo bets?", 
        "This is the only cool thing Jon Anik has ever done. ", 
        "That is dumb. ", 
        "Yeah I don't see how this is cool.", 
        "And you think this type of following through is respectable? Why am I the only that sees through this...it's called the rope a dope and it's cheap and weak. Jon Anik is scamming the world, and he's soft.", 
        "Seems like a lame thing to do. A permanent tattoo for the sake of a \"point\".", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I don't.", 
        "Does anyone here think less of him for GETTING the tattoo? Come on guys..his job is to make conversation fodder about a silly sport. He said something completely idiotic but to tattoo it to your arm doesn't ring integrity to me--more poor judgement and stubbornness. Just admit that you were being an attention whore. I would not want to explain to my kids why I have a 209 tattoo on my forearm. I would rather tell them a cautionary tale of how I put my foot in my mouth once and backed out on a deal. Even Nate didn't expect him to get it. ", 
        "What if he just paid some guy to get the tattoo, took the picture and now will just wear long sleeves the rest of his life?", 
        "No one else thinks that looks beta?\n\nIt's like Nate made him his prison bitch.", 
        "You know who worries about alpha/beta shit?\n\nOmegas.", 
        "I don't think so. He said he was going to do something and he stuck to his word.", 
        "I'm not jewish, yet I can't help but think about jews in concentration  camps and how they were tattood with their corresponding  number. I'm trying to find something funny to say that corresponds with the 209 but genocide is not funny at all, so...", 
        "I gotchu fam...\n\n[Repppin the 209, we gettin baked like its the holocaust.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pbRUTHGLu9s)", 
        "My children's birthdays are on each arm..... you are really reaching for some bullshit comparison here. ", 
        "Would of been relevant if it was Ariel instead of Jon.", 
        "lay off the meds bruh", 
        "You are reaching making a parallel between a tattoo of an area code and tattoos of identification numbers used in concentration camps. ", 
        "What a bizarre comment", 
        "Everyone saying respect and shit, I think it's fucking stupid. Whatever.", 
        "A real man always keeps his word.", 
        "Nate seems like a great guy, but damn, he has maybe eleven brain cells left up stairs. ", 
        "That was an interesting look at the first round. It is hard to catch everything watching it live, or even watching a replay without someone pointing these things out. Live I was very unimpressed by Nate in the 1st round. After this video I feel the round was much more competitive. I wonder the perception would have been had he not been cut. \n\nThat said, the guy who made this video comes off as being snarky and arrogant. It really takes away from his breakdown. ", 
        ">That said, the guy who made this video comes off as being snarky and arrogant. It really takes away from his breakdown. \n\n\nYeah, I feel like he should take some public speaking classes or something too. Mumbling all over the damn place. It was like listening to someone commentate chess under their breath at times. ", 
        "yeah, his voice is quite dry. ", 
        "He definitely was arrogant. I don't know why he'd think people want to watch a video with him patting himself on the back over and over for things he supposedly predicted. \n\nHe also thought his paragraphs written across the screen were more important than the actual fight footage. I felt like they flashed quickly in between his rants.\n\nI didn't make it past 5 mins.", 
        "5 mins? I cut it off at 2 minutes like \"Who the fuck is this guy\". ", 
        "I've rewatched the fight twice now,   1st round was a lot closer than I initially thought.   Still edge it to Conor due to landing the heavier,  more damaging strikes. \n", 
        "I actually thought Conor had his best moments in the first minutes of the second. Especially that body shot he landed 30 seconds in.", 
        "For sure. Conor landed some good ones.", 
        "Interesting take on the fight I guess but very click bait title. Slowing it down doesn't change what happened. In the first round Nate's striking was mostly neutralized. I'd still do 10-9 McGregor. \n\nThis does let you see exhaustion more clearly though.", 
        "Great breakdown.  Very unbiased and technical.  I didn't think I'd be watching all 17 minutes but the guy seems to know his stuff. \n\nHe was tooting his horn a bit much but still a solid post. ", 
        "In all seriousness, this is a damn good breakdown.", 
        "Best username I've ever seen. Cool post, too!", 
        "ha, cheers!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Well, discussing things makes sure we're able to judge better in the future", 
        "Yeah I don't really care that much, I think technical discussion about the fight should be encouraged, and I think this video does it objectively. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Looking at faces doesn't mean anything. GSPs face was busted up after the Diaz and Condit fight. He still won those dominantly ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Nope you justified Conor winning round one by looking at Nates face. GSPs face was busted up from Nick but GSP won every round . Nate and forest griffin have a lot of scar tissue and will bleed with light hits.", 
        "but you said its evidence that the busted up fighter is losing", 
        "Thanks for backing me up. Some people can't admit when they wrong for some reason", 
        "This won't stop for another month or so in this community. Only adults have moved on and accepted that Nate won and McGregor isn't a bad fighter because of it.", 
        "I find alot of people on here describe the first round as a mauling, as opposed to looking at it objectively, which i thought this analysis did well. It's not something emotional for me, it's just hard to see what's happening when the exchanges are so fast, and I think this is good insight.", 
        "Is that when our Irish friends are going to show back up? About a month?", 
        "Sure.", 
        "Never disputed that, but people make it out to be VERY one sided, which wasn't the case. Mcgregor was sacrificing alot to be competitive.\n\nNate's cut doesn't really mean anything. Some get cut faster than others.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I don't think visual damage should be a criteria, but overall damage absolutely should be factored in my opinion. GSP vs Hendricks is a good example- GSP got beat up in that fight and should have lost.\n\n", 
        ">One thing I didn\u2019t mention in the video is the \u201cpraise\u201d of Conor\u2019s move to 170. Anyone who knows, knows why and how that happened, and even if not, Nate Diaz is a 155 lb fighter, so the UFC brass really pushed hard to make this a 25 lb. jump, ESPECIALLY before the contest, when in reality, it\u2019s a 155 lb. fight and neither fighter cut weight.\n\nThis shit is getting a bit annoying. Nate cut from 182 to 170. He absolutely did cut weight to make 170. Conor didn't cut anything and just walked on the scales as apparent by him being two pounds less than the limit. Yes Conor chose this, thought the extra energy from not cutting would give him the advantage and thus deserves the flak for it, but pretending like Diaz didn't cut any weight and that makes it a LW fight is nuts. He absolutely had a slight weight advantage going into this one, not that I think the weight played any factor in the fight whatsoever. Conor got outskilled and it wasn't until he was gassed and hurt that Nate got on top of him so the weight likely wouldn't have mattered at all.  ", 
        "Do you have a source saying that Nate cut from 180? I recall Nate saying he got sick of the water in Mexico and didn't need to cut.", 
        "http://espn.go.com/video/clip?id=14904385\nNot sure if this was the exact video because I'm almost positive I heard Gil mention it but if it was I was mistaken and Chael said it. Gilbert seemed to agree and he would know best though.", 
        "It must have been the prefight bs talk then. Nate also said he was training for a triathlon before the fight then admitted he was on vacation after. ", 
        "Didn't Dana say Nate was training for a triathlon? Pretty sure Nate never said anything to that affect and only mentioned it to deny it lol. Fucking Dana. ", 
        "It probably was Dana then the Diaz camp doubled down on it just to hype the fight. \n\nIt's funny that the UFC (Dana in particular) will say anything to support whatever picture they're trying to paint at the moment.", 
        "Yup. He was clearly trying to mitigate some of that criticism for giving the fight to someone who wasn't in camp by trying to spin it as if he is in shape lol. He does that shit all the time. ", 
        "This is bullshit because on conors last fight a week before he had to make 145 he was weighing in at 172. He was 168 this time with much more muscle mass. He definitely cut a little bit for this fight as well.", 
        "You're wrong man. He was preparing to make 155 with two weeks out before it got changed to 170. He was 168, which is about where you'd want to be for a healthy cut to 155 when you're two weeks out from the fight. Why the fuck would anybody cut an extra two pounds of water for no reason?", 
        "He said so himself a week before his last fight what his weight was. He said 172.. and he looked a lot skinnier. Also after weigh ins before he fought Aldo it was reported that he was at around 165 when he started rehydrating. There's no way he was 168 that much bigger without cutting a little.", 
        "As somebody who has had to cut weight before, I am telling you, If a fighter weighs in two pounds less than the limit it is because that is their walking around weight. When your cutting you check the scales after every ounce of water you shed. No fucking way did he cut TWO POUNDS of extra water before he realized he was on weight and if he did he would have re-hydrated a bit to be up to 170.", 
        "One pound is a lot too, diaz was under as well.\nJust saying Conor's walking around weight when he's skinny for 145 is over 170 already.", 
        "Then why did Nate cut to 169 and not 171? Quit playing. Conor got beat by a LW who got 11 days to prepare. End of story", 
        "I flat out said weight had nothing to do with the result of the fight and that Conor was outskilled, but the FACT is that Nate did cut some weight for this and Conor just walked on the scale. Don't believe me? Maybe you'll believe his teammate as Gil seems to agree. http://espn.go.com/video/clip?id=14904385\nPretending this wasn't the case so you can spin whatever narrative you're trying to is silly. Those were just the facts man. I'm not taking anything from Diaz by saying that. He still fought and won without a camp which is crazy but pretending that he didn't have a slight weight advantage is delusional. ", 
        "Ofc he had a weight advantage, Nate fights at LW and Conor at FW, but your point about weightcutting is null since Nate ended up at 169 and not 171. ", 
        "Wouldn't be the first time a fighter has come in one pound under the limit just to be sure. That isn't uncommon. Rarely any fighters will come in two pounds under the limit. That almost NEVER happens man and you know it. He was clearly walking around at that weight and I just gave you a source that proves Nate cut a bit to make the weight. \n\nMy only point ever was that this idiot wrote that extra bit about the weight and flat out said some untrue shit that neither guy cut anything and tried to present it as if it were fact.", 
        "Man, I love Mauro Ranallo's commentary. His analogies actually make sense and his experience in MMA translates to wrestling well", 
        "He is taking more hits than a Paris Hilton sex tape site!", 
        "I might be the last person to learn that Mauro is doing WWE now, Holy shit. I'd have gone crazy if I still watched, but isn't he too much of a wrestling geek for the WWE? I'd be afraid he'd just end up like Matt Striker. Doesn't he get in trouble for actually knowing the names of the moves?", 
        "They are actually pretty gloves off when it comes to Mauro. He's really respected by the other members of the announce team. ", 
        "Everyone at squared circle seems to love him.  He only does smackdown, where apparently it's acceptable that he calls the moves.  For some reason I excitedly read all their threads about him after his first night doing it.  ", 
        "I couldn't get into his podcast, that radio voice is fine for announcing but it was cringey in normal conversation. ", 
        "You should hear Goldberg's regular voice.  It sounds nothing like his announcing.", 
        "Thank god for that.", 
        "Same for Michael Buffer.", 
        "Same reason I can't listen to Anik on his podcast with Florian. That's not a podcasting voice Jon.", 
        "I always enjoy his boxing commentary as well. Makes me wonder if I watch it for the boxing or to listen for his analogies haha", 
        "Mauro Ranallo is a gift to pro wrestling commentary in these dark days of Cole/Saxton/JBL.", 
        "Truth and I don't mean R.", 
        "Yeah I think Mauro's not overkill with his analogies, unlike someone like Michael Schiavello who doesn't stop using them", 
        "My biggest problem with him is that the Australian accent sounds very unprofessional. And I'm Australian.", 
        "Everyone will say Goodnight Irene because it's what he always says but my personal favorite was \"THANK YOUR MOTHER FOR THE RABBITS!!!\" hahaha what the fuck is that. ", 
        "[let Knighty give you some insight] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=60xeYmgX_7k)", 
        "AND IT'S GOODNIGHT IRENE!!", 
        "That's not an analogy. ", 
        "I wasn't posting it because it's an analogy, but as a matter of fact the phrase uses going to sleep as a metaphor for being knocked out. But I say that prettymuch every time someone mentions Schiavello.", 
        "That's just his catchphrase. Goldberg does the exact same thing, some fight you can just seem him waiting for the money shot of \"IT IS ALL OVER\" and provide little else.", 
        "this. Im triggered now", 
        "I love those time when he starts to pull the trigger only to realize the fight is not, in fact, over, and then has to try to reel it back in.", 
        "Yeah it happens all the time, you can just feel him itching to scream that line out at the first opportunity.", 
        "When Shinya Aoki hyperextended Kawajiri's foot in DREAM...\n\n\"THAT'S GOODNIGHT IRENE!!!! GOOD NIGHT IRENE!!!\"", 
        "\"DID I FORGET TO MENTION 'GOODNIGHT IRENE'?  NO?  WELL GOODNIGHT IRENE!\"", 
        "Jesus 196 just doesn't stop. :D", 
        "Best UFC ever. WAR DIAZ FUCK ZUFFA ZOMBIES", 
        "well only the last two fights were good. they should have stacked the card a little more", 
        "u are right.", 
        "Nick and Nate vs Beiber and Mayweather at UFC 200", 
        "In a steel cage", 
        "Chutes and ladders match", 
        "Nunchutes?", 
        "444 light tubes death match.", 
        "They would have to cut down to like 140lbs to fight Bieber.\n\n I guess you could say they would be..................cutting for Bieber. :)", 
        "Underrated comment of the day", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/vF7rVgt.gif", 
        "I belieb", 
        "This just in! This word play is out of this world", 
        "Nick is such a troll", 
        "I like troll nick", 
        "http://www.mmabay.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/Nick-Diaz6.jpg", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/aryI7VI.gif", 
        "He looks like a crack dealer when he wears that hat.", 
        "I just hope the Diaz bros keep winning so we can keep gettin them Diaz memes.", 
        "Nate wont. Yall really forgettin dude has what, 11 losses?", 
        "10 losses and 20 wins. That's a damn good MMA record. Barely worse than HOF Liddells 21-8 record. Pfft", 
        "Liddell's losses towards the end were because he was out of his prime still tryin to compete.", 
        "Doesn't matter. People just see #s.", 
        "Lol what an idiot", 
        "You lose sometimes in MMA. It's not boxing. Doesn't mean you're a bad fighter.", 
        "10 loses, 8 by decision.  People forget Nate has only been finished twice in his 9 year career.", 
        "And so they can get that funny shirt money, I wonder what he'll buy after buying that pirate ship", 
        "DDM = Dank Diaz Meme", 
        "r/MMA and r/SquaredCircle coming together in one post?!? Dreams DO come true!", 
        "Yeah, I legit had no fucking clue what sub I was in for a brief moment. I love it maggle!", 
        "Is Jewish Nightmare your gimmick?", 
        "No, just a nickname some old foster parents used to have for me. Thought it had a ring to it.", 
        "Did they consider you a nightmarish Jew or antisemitic?", 
        "[Fun when it happens!](http://i.imgur.com/Kpeu1Ci.gifv)", 
        "Nick Diaz watching WWE is hilarious. He's probably a Paul Heyman guy", 
        "I was listening to the radio today... Justin Bieber \"Sorry\"... right after the song ended the radio host goes \"Yes bieber it's too late to say sorry to nate diaz. but maybe conor can help you... oh wait....\" It was damn beautiful", 
        "Why were you listening to Bieber?", 
        "His new songs are not actually bad", 
        "His new album is good. He's moved away from the teeny pop into somethings more mature. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I want to believe though.", 
        "It could have happened", 
        "I'm fucking your mom right now. ", 
        "It could have happened ", 
        "You're a good sport.", 
        "you're right, radio hosts NEVER talk about popular things that happened recently", 
        "Lololol  ", 
        "Anyone else think WWE will tire of the MMA references? He's a good commentator tho ", 
        "He's not the first to do it. JBL has made them in the past, and NXT crew has. ", 
        "lol, Nick has a picture of him and Rae Sremmurd. I can't imagine them hanging out.", 
        "Yea, that was unexpected", 
        "lolz", 
        "Whats this referencing? ", 
        "Man.. FUCK that fool!", 
        "[this](https://instagram.com/p/BCr0DfZuPty/)", 
        "After McGregor's loss Justin Bieber basically called Nate's win a fluke and said his style was terrible... Nate responded/bitch slapped him telling him to shut up.", 
        "I wish I could show this to a someone in my house. I would get some seriously blank/weird looks if I tried.", 
        "LMFAO! Mauro is killing it at the WWE.", 
        "Man, I want to like this, but it's such an obviously shoehorned in pop culture reference I just can't", 
        "Come on man, just relax and enjoy it.\n\nLife is just a simulation anyway.", 
        "WWE do it all the time. JBL on Raw is the worsttttt", 
        "He compared Becky Lynch getting thrown into the wall in Raw to Conor losing. It made absolutely no sense.", 
        "I'm telling you Maggle, Pocchetino could really use him at mid! ", 
        "MAANCHESTUR UNI'ED IN THE PREM-IER LEAGUE MAGGLE ", 
        "Mauro is hilarious ", 
        "I bet Nate's gonna feel the wrath of beliebers...lol", 
        "[Exclusive footage of Nate handling the Beliebers](http://i.giphy.com/l2JJJyoQxuyOky4De.gif)", 
        "Context?", 
        "Some girl is getting beaten down by five other girls, while no one bothers to help. Then this dude swoops in out of nowhere, [swinging the hammer of justice](https://youtube.com/watch?v=adXPdn3c2BI)", 
        "Haha, kind of reminds me of this:\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nrZ3s1XCQD4", 
        "Mauro is amazing on wwe/in general, even if his references seem a bit forced at times. He single handedly made Smackdown a watchable show again", 
        "Man, I want to like 140lbs to fight Bieber.", 
        "That's fucking amazing! LMAO", 
        "That's such an amazing line.", 
        "WWE commentator Michael Cole also mentioned Nate Diaz tapping McGregor during a broadcast earlier this week.", 
        "Look's like the Diaz bro's were serious about that WWE debut.", 
        "\"It's gonna be in a Hell in a Cell or whatever, homie.\"", 
        "No, just a simulation anyway.", 
        "Forgot they hired him.", 
        "as  good of an announcer mauro is, he really needs  to be in MMA", 
        "Mauro! What a perfect fit he was for Pride next to Bas Rutten. Underrated commentator not just in MMA, but sports in general. Tremendous showman, and glad to see he is doing well in the WWE.", 
        "Lol, do the WWE fans even get the reference? Not you guys obviously, the general audience that doesn't watch MMA.", 
        "Mauro is awesome, its too bad he doesn't live in BC anymore. His parents are still in this town and thriving but he moved and lives with his family in California now. He was a great commentator when he did the local wrestling shows which was bizarre to hear at the time as he was also the voice of Pride at the same time.", 
        "Stick to the play by play Mauro", 
        "MAURO IN THE WWE? Poor guy", 
        "I hate making money doing what I love, poor guy for sure", 
        "They are blessed to have him.", 
        "\u201cSince I was five years old I\u2019ve wanted to work with WWE as a commentator.\u201d\n\n-Mauro Ranallo", 
        "When I was 5 I wanted to be Shawn Michaels, then I grew up", 
        "Come on no need to be an asshole", 
        "WWE was good when he was five", 
        "So you did not become a sexy boy?", 
        "I got freaked out by the notion to run around in tights and oil myself up", 
        "I had the gloves.", 
        "Sucks for you", 
        "Now I suck dick behind foreclosed Blockbusters ", 
        "You do? Well, thank you for confiding.", 
        "And became a dick.", 
        "So pre-reborn Christian Era Shawn Michaels ", 
        "Yup. Heard that there were very few people worse than him during that period.", 
        "Diaz threw alot of single jabs first round, and saw that mcgregor going for the counter uppercut alot after the dodge. Changed his timing a bit, and caught him in the second round with that 1-2. ", 
        "This.", 
        "ha, thats cool", 
        "These clips are only a few seconds apart. The set up is good but Connor was being insanely predictable in the 2nd round.", 
        "He fell for his own predictions. He believed so much that his uppercut would hit that he constantly threw it and it became easy to see and cover up for Diaz. ", 
        "Ayyy I'm not surprised, motherfuckers", 
        "Conor McGregor, you taking everything I work for! Please let me get paid. I can't afford a plane ticket!", 
        "Aw still bitter?", 
        "Who won? That's right.", 
        "And here we can see the elusive nuthugger.  Slowly making their way back into /r/mma following the mass migration of UFC196.", 
        "I read this in David Attenborough's voice. ", 
        "> The adult male Nuthugger (*Conoramus testicularus*) clutches a scale-model replica of his favorite fighter's scrotum with a fierce determination at all times. It is desperately protective of its personal sack, and any attempt conversation with an aggravated Nuthugger will result in its distinctive whine.", 
        "Very David Attenborough-esque in his description there, Joe. ", 
        "Bahahaha!", 
        "Damn son, your sodium retention is off the charts. ", 
        " He's so salty a snail would die if it touched him. ", 
        "Wow! Definitely didn't expect this to be number 1 comment. You went out on a limb precicting the top comment on this thread! This exact comment defintely has not dominated every r/mma thread for the last week. Reddit certainly is not a circlejerk! \nWelcome downvotes, I predict dese tings!", 
        "Lets be real, this numbers weren't for Nate", 
        "*Ayy'm.", 
        "m'Ayyy", 
        "M'MA", 
        "*Tips Fedor*", 
        "[*Fedor intensifies...*](http://i.imgur.com/LGdOBlc.jpg)\n\n", 
        "No cauliflower ear at all", 
        "Hello Joseph", 
        "Idk about you guys but when I order through Playstation Plus, I only pay 45$. It's awesome ", 
        "Only downside is that there's no way to rewatch anything since it's only live", 
        "All main card fights are free in Sweden.", 
        "Hey, me too.", 
        "how much does it normally cost in your country?", 
        "In sweden its free. And the other viaplay countries. ", 
        "VPN to another country. I paid about $25 I think. ", 
        "In the UK we get to watch it for free", 
        "I can buy it for 16\u20ac (but I don't)", 
        "You can order it through Playstation plus?! ", 
        "UFC 196 was the first time I used PS+ for an event, and I don't think I'll order it anywhere else again. Wonderful discount.", 
        "I did this for the first time for 196 and it was great.", 
        "Their cheap prices normally are for SD (non HD) quality.  I'd check that out.", 
        "I paid 6.5 eur.    ( http://fightchanneltv.com/pay-per-view/  ) .\n\nCroatian site -channel .", 
        "Not many VPN services have servers in former Yugoslavia and I assume your ip has to be in \ud83c\udded\ud83c\uddf7 ", 
        "Purchase BT Sport for \u00a315 a month and a British VPN for \u00a35 a month. \n\n\u00a320 a month, all the PPV fights you can handle. ", 
        "isn't that bt sports contract expiring real soon, april maybe correct me if wrong.", 
        "Sheiiit. I dunno. ", 
        "it's until end of july, so you are good for ufc 200 :) , bbc three got some deal for some events outside us but i don't think we don't  know what will happen yet and who will get new contract", 
        "Idk about you guys, but did you notice on Comcast (west states) you can't re-watch the bouts? They told me their is a \"policy change\" where you can only view the event during Broadcast hours.\n\nSo, DVR or bust.", 
        "I was afraid they'd do that, so I DVR'd the Aldo-McGregor card. Rewatched just before 196 and it was still a great card.", 
        "Yep! I have a couple friends pitch in $10 and it's 100% worth it", 
        "Yeah but they never work on ps4", 
        "How's the stream? One thing I still like about cable is the fact that I get a flawless HD feed through the entire thing. ", 
        "The UFC.tv stream is great for a computer.  My buddy recently tried it combined with his TV and said it was noticeably not as good quality but still good.", 
        "When my brother was stationed in Korea he would only half to pay like half price for each card so we would make him log in and get it then I would just watch em for cheap. I don't know why its cheaper in Korea threw fightpass, location maybe?", 
        "I've lived in Korea and Korean TV shows them for free. ", 
        "is it in SD or HD?", 
        "HD. Never had a stream cut out. ", 
        "Are you 100% positive it's HD?  Because when I see pirated stream links for fights they always list them as \"HD!\", but they look worse than SD.  I think the people who label those streams confuse 16:9 as HD and 4:3 as SD.", 
        "This is a common problem with pirate streams.\n\nThey're streaming their HD stream to a source (streaming site) who has to deal with potentially hundreds of thousands of viewers - for an illegal stream. It's *never* going to be HD. They will never have the bandwidth to supply those numbers for pirated material.", 
        "what's your definition of HD? \n\nCause its more like 560p I believe it maxes out at around 2500kb\n\nDon't get me wrong, it looks decent, and is perfectly watchable, but the quality is much better via cable/satellite. \n\nOne thing I notice, is I guess they lower the encoding quality and FPS for a better stream, not the end of the world, but it's silly to call it HD when it kinda really isn't. ", 
        "> Cause its more like 560p I believe it maxes out at around 2500kb\n\nMinimum 720, basically what fight pass streams look like.  Cable/satellite definitely looks better than the official UFC channel on youtube, for one the frame rate is WAY better on a TV broadcast.", 
        "I'm talking about fightpass/UFC.TV \n\nThey are supplied by a content provider called nuelions and their feed they send out, isn't really \"HD\" by definition. \n\nI had actually looked into it awhile ago, and measured the quality as I was looking to find the perfect hardware to stream from UFC.tv and found that the apple tv actually gave the best quality overall. When I looked into the bitrate the highest ufc.tv did was around 3Mbps which in terms of quality is just a little higher than 480p..the low end of 720 @ 30fps is 5Mbps...so it's almost 1/2 the real quality. \n\nLike I said, it doesn't make it unwatchable..it's PERFECTLY watchable and for the price well worth it..but as a videophile I was disappointed. ", 
        "yeah, I just want to be clear if the PS price is as good of a feed as UFCs official outlet...because I know the official page offers a lower quality stream for $10 less.", 
        "it might be even better honestly, i never tried it on the ps. I've used the xbox 360 via their app (not ufc.tv) and the quality was almost identical to cable. Their FPS was high and the quality was perfect. \n\nthe issue here is nuelions and their subpar streaming quality,", 
        "This isn't a pirated stream, its from ufc.tv.  If you have the bandwidth, it will be in HD, ya goof", 
        "I know it's an official stream, my doubt is in the OP if he considers a 16:9 source as HD, or if it is a true 720/1080 feed.  UFCs YouTube channel sells SD streams for $10 less, around the same price as what OP mentioned.", 
        "Wtf? I bought it from YouTube and it was 16\u20ac (about 18$). And it stays up there and I can revisit and watch it again and again.. ", 
        "was 29.99 for me", 
        "I am starting to like bt sport 2, I pay nothing but the sports channel package for my tv provider which is like \u00a35 a month", 
        "The only reason I signed up with Virgin was for the free bt sports ", 
        "Me too but I read they're not gonna renew with ufc and sky sports will probably get it after August. Don't be surprised if they charge extra for it motherfucker.", 
        "Yeah same, I didn't realise the PPV where so expensive. GG BT sport.", 
        "It's $18 in Ireland ", 
        "Not true, used to be \u20ac17.99, for this card it was bumped up to \u20ac25. Absolute BS. Unless I'm missing some inside joke. ", 
        "Where was that? It was \u20ac18 on YouTube I'm pretty sure ", 
        "\u20ac15.99 for me", 
        "In Brazil we pay 65 BRL/month (about 17-20 USD) to watch ALL events (UFC PPV, UFN, TUF etc)", 
        "And people say America's better than Brazil!", 
        "Wait... really? On Xbox it's still $60. I usually buy fights on YouTube for $50 which is nice because you get to keep that event and reach it whenever you want.", 
        "You don't get to keep the event if you buy it anywhere besides youtube?", 
        "No. ", 
        "I think on some older directv boxes it will stay until you delete.  I usually watch ufcs at a friend's house who gets them through directv and he's always able to keep them.   I tried it at my house also ordering through directv and it was inaccessible on the dvr after 24 hours.  His box isn't connected to the Internet and mine is.   That's the only reason I can come up with.  ", 
        "you can also apply play store credit towards youtube purchases. i do google reward surveys and usually get around $20 a month from them. ", 
        "20 a month? I get about 20 a year from them.", 
        "i have 4 different devices with rewards and google now with location services installed. make sure you have location tracking turned on when you go out running errands. i'll run around town shopping and have 5-6 pop up in the following 24H. ", 
        "Sweet I'll try that out thanks!", 
        "How do you get so much I have had \u00a310 in a year", 
        "You can get free credit by doing [google reward surveys](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)", 
        "How long does that take to do?", 
        "Seconds. It's awesome.", 
        "The whole process for $20?", 
        "Nah. They usually give between like $0.12-$0.50, I've gotten whole dollars out of them before tho.", 
        "So, how long does the whole process take to get $20? Is it a better idea to just work an hour at a job? ", 
        "Well obviously it's better to work at a job. Like, if the surveys came in constantly one after another you could make some serious cash I bet, but they don't. They come in one at a time depending on your activities and, presumably,  who is paying google for survey results (Got one from the Republican party the other day, I get one every time I go to a target etc). I personally get 2-3 a week, sometimes more. It's meant as a \"Oh hey, after a couple of months of doing these surveys when they pop up randomly I can buy this movie/book/app on Google Play for free, sweet!\"", 
        "Oh I see. Pretty cool either way", 
        "If you can convince UFC.tv you are somewhere you aren't you can get it < $20 ", 
        "Thats fucking illegal", 
        "That's fraud, man.", 
        "Then the stream  doesn't work for shit. I have lost my faith in UFC.tv", 
        "Honesty is the best policy", 
        "Nah man i am good. Changing the price model from nothing to essentially 15\u20ac per card + 10\u20ac fightpass lost my hype. ", 
        "Honestly, you're prolly one steroids you fuckin' goof you. ", 
        "Well at least he isn't two steroids.  Or god forbid he tries one marijuana's, think of the children.", 
        "Dana has never subscribed to that.", 
        "Some money is better than pirating.", 
        "Depending on their structure they may end up with the same amount of money as for US PPVs buys the cable companies take half (or even more. Not sure about the exact percent. Can even be 60%). Rather pay the UFC directly than pay a good amount to the cable companies.", 
        "Don't convince it that you're in Canada, it would have cost me more to watch it on there than on cable even with the PS Plus discount. ", 
        "I started to get a 403 error with unlocator.", 
        "Its free in sweden at the moment through viaplay, maybe it works if u get a swedish proxy through hulu?", 
        "shh", 
        "Do you have to subscribe for the $10/month to purchase the ppv too? ", 
        "No.", 
        "How would you do that? Proxy?", 
        "yep", 
        "VPN probably. That's what I use.", 
        "Hm. I'll try this next time....", 
        "I pay for a VPN called ExpressVPN. I like it a lot. I use it for torrenting, Netflix, UFC, MLS soccer, etc... I always get HD streams by default, meaning the speed is pretty damn solid. Definitely worth the investment if you've got a use for VPNs.", 
        "i tried a free trial of a diff VPN to stream a fox sports 1  card on fightpass, and it worked great, then i bought the vpn and tried to go to the ufc.tv page and it gave me a forbidden block (only on that site)..\n\nmaybe i'll try expressvpn next time", 
        "same thing happened to me when I used unlocator, but I found a work around. ", 
        "thats the one i was talking about, was the work around easy?", 
        "i used hide.me to get me on the site and then shut hide.me off once the video was playing. ", 
        "I use btguard.com and although I pay $10/month, I could be in Singapore or The Netherlands or Canada, at will.\n\nWorks great. Then open a browser in Incognito (to not have location data given away), and buy the PPV.\n\nOnce the stream starts, you can turn off the VPN, and it will stream on your normal internet connection.", 
        "I use Unotelly and just open a new account every time the free trial runs out. Haven't used UFC.tv but NHL.tv works perfectly on my PS4 so I can watch my Leafs games.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Youtube checks your Cookies for location settings among other things so yes it helps along with VPN.", 
        "I've had it not work, if not using incognito/private mode.\n\nI'm assuming that my cookies could give away some location data.\n\nBut I still have to pay $55 if I'm not in Incognito mode, I can tell you that. I accidentally do it every month or two.\n\nEdit: I'm assuming that (since I have Fight Pass), ufc.tv uses cookies to store my location data.\n\nIf I go into Incognito mode, that location data (which showed that I'm in the US) is not in play, and my IP address (Singapore?) will determine my location, as if it's my first time at the site.\n\nIf that's NOT the reason that I need incog/Private Browsing, I'm not sure what the reason is!", 
        "I pay like $40 a year for Private Internet Access; one of the best VPNs around.", 
        "me 2, but Netflix no longer works with them :-( ", 
        "Yup, it has always worked flawlessly for me. Small price to pay to get nearly three PPVs for the price of one. ", 
        "\u00a33 if you use Russian proxy and buy through YouTube. Bargain :)", 
        "Holy shit. I know what I'm doing next time.", 
        "Do you live in sweden? I do and all main cards have been free on viaplay so far this year since they took over UFC rights (no subscription necessary). Though it will presumably move into their monthly sport package eventually.", 
        "I live in UK for work. They're on BT Sports here but I don't get it", 
        "Go on...", 
        "Download Hola (I know it's not great), change to Russian. Go to Youtube stream and click purchase. Should be in RUB but it works out at around \u00a33.", 
        "then you turn Hola off and its still paid for in your account? What do you use to pay for it? Credit card? Paypal?", 
        "Yeah it's still there. I used PayPal", 
        "Do you have an example of where works? ~~I~~ My friend tried for the last PPV and it was still the same price.", 
        "I usually pick Spain and it works. $27ish for 196.", 
        "Set up a chrome proxy extension, takes 10 seconds.\n\nOrder it while proxied overseas.\n\nTurn it off.\n\nWatch.", 
        "I often buy using a VPN, and charge via any asian pac rim country.  Not sure if its necessary - but I also have a Chinese credit card so I cannot speak for whether or not that has an affect on my purchase price.  I use Astrill, in case you are wondering, although my colleague uses betternet for VPN (and its free) and he has the same quality net as myself.  I should clarify that I live in mainland China, and we have to use a VPN to get past the great Chinese Internet Firewall.  That being said, 100 RMB for a PPV ~ roughly 17 dollars depending on how the RMB is doing.  ", 
        "Usually the ppv's are free on Letv but for some reason this one wasn't. Damned if I know why....", 
        "You can purchase from there with a U.S. card.  I watch a lot of PPVs \"from\" Hong Kong.", 
        "Really?  I had a buddy trying to buy via Astrill with a USA bank card that was rejected many times over the course of 2 or 3 days before a card and he kept getting back, \"your purchase is not legal at this time.\"", 
        "I have no idea what Astrill is.  I meant buying directly from ufc.tv\n\nEdit:  It's a VPN provider.  I've never used them, I use PIA.  As long as I come in with a clean session (no cookies, etc.) I can use my U.S. Visa on ufc.tv no matter where the VPN is set.", 
        "Right on man, I happened to be trapped in China at the moment so I'm forced to use a VPN - there's a weird catch 22 for ordering here, I need a VPN to unblock the China weirdness, but I use the proxy locale to order from HK typically...or sometimes even order from China for cheaper even though its verboten...", 
        "unlocator.com\n", 
        "> \u00a33 if you use Russian proxy and buy through YouTube. Bargain :)\n\n", 
        "hong kong is $25 for HD. I've done it for months.", 
        "whats the price in HKD?", 
        "No clue. ", 
        "it shows the price in $USD when you buy it in hongkong?", 
        "I posted a screenshot elsewhere that shows exactly how it looks. ", 
        "Its 15usd if you buy the ppv on youtube in hk", 
        "It hasn't been for me for the last few times. It's been $24.99 for the HD PPV. Here's a screenshot with all of the purchase options for me: http://imgur.com/btpnUCL", 
        "I was talking about the price of the PPV on YouTube", 
        "It would help if I could read, eh? Thanks!", 
        "Haha no prob, you also get to keep the replay so you can watch it anytime you like again", 
        "Damn. Well worth it. Do you know if you can watch it through the Roku app, etc?", 
        "What the hell have I been subscribing to a VPN for all this time not to think of this.", 
        "Probably due to cookies, best bet is to go incognito mode. New Zealand is a beautiful country to visit but I hear there are countries in asia that are nice too ;)", 
        "The lowest number I've heard was Hong Kong. ", 
        "That's where I buy it from 24.99/for HD ", 
        "I think the HD Stream is a waste honestly.  SD saves about $5", 
        "HK is very cheap but it's gone up recently.  Mainland China is also very cheap, sometimes less than 20 dollars if you buy through a gov't provider.  Which is ironic, b/c it's blocked content that you need a VPN to access, but can still purchase it through a gov't sponsored provider...China is a really weird place...", 
        "Won't there be latency issues if you pick NZ or a country in Asia if you live in US?", 
        "None at all. ", 
        "Latency isn't really a thing with streaming. ", 
        "I mean you are just watching a video... who cares if it is 500ms behind reality.  Its not like you are trying to headshot someone.  ", 
        "But the ping!!!!!", 
        "The lag is so bad I'm just now watching 196.  Really hoping Conor wins.", 
        "Nope. After ordering, you can turn the vpn off. Or so I've heard...", 
        "I no its not on level with America, but the PPV here in NZ is now up to $30. ", 
        "Ireland, 25 euro for the event!", 
        "It cost 30 nzd here(20 usd)", 
        "I wonder how much the PPV is in North Korea...", 
        "Free live on TV n South Korea but with overdubs by local commentators in Dodgy suits", 
        "1 free execution.", 
        "about 3.50", 
        "*\"That's tree fiddy to ya, Muthafucka!\"*", 
        "whats tree fiddy?", 
        "Three dollars and fifty cents!", 
        "About 3.5 limbs from your body.", 
        "3 days in the acid mine.", 
        "You have been promoted to Moderator of /r/pyongyang", 
        "So they get a vacation from the lava mines?  Sounds like a deal.  ", 
        ">UFC 196 seemingly earned a 1.5 million PPV buy rate, which puts it ahead of UFC 100 and all over landmark events in the promotion's history.\n\nI thought UFC 100 did 1.6m?", 
        "Probably considering other stats / factors like social media, gate, (and general drama + awesomeness), etc.", 
        "New mma fan - why did ufc 100 do that much? Who was on the card? ", 
        "Brock Lesnar vs Frank Mir grudge match for the undisputed heavyweight title. GSP vs Thiago Alves for the Welterweight title. Plus the Ultimate Fighter coaches fight between Dan Henderson and Michael Bisping. And most importantly... JON FITCH!", 
        "And Jon Jones' coming out party against Stephan Bonnar. \n\nAll in all great card, it's worth it just for Lesnar's post-fight interview - \"I'm gonna drink a COORS beer, because Budweiser won't pay me enough\"", 
        "Damn. That Hendo knockout had me erect for the whole fucking night. And Lesnar capped it off by beating Mir senseless and then going on an unscripted WWF-style rant. Brought back the attitude era for a short time", 
        "That was the first UFC event I ever watched. I still have flash backs to that Henderson knock out. ", 
        "I think it may be pushed over the edge because of the internet buys. I'm not even sure if online PPV buys were a thing during UFC 100.", 
        "I don't think so.  The first UFC I remember buying online was 141 (Overeem - Lesnar).", 
        "What a sad night that was for poor Brock. ", 
        "It did.", 
        "All PPV numbers are pretty much estimates.", 
        "Publicly talked about PPV numbers are estimates.  The UFC will eventually know exactly how many buys they got.  But, that will take months to reconcile, and won't be leaked unless they're doing PR.", 
        "Estimates to who?  Seems like PPV would know exactly what is up, you know with the bank transactions and all.", 
        "The PPV system is split among many different providers though. It is not a one-to-one transaction between the customers and the UFC. What they have by Thursday are enough reports from the various providers to estimate what the final numbers will be. They won't know for months or even years at the actual numbers.\n\nIt might have changed but it used to be you could estimate the final domestic box office of a US movie as being 2.9 times the opening weekend. ", 
        "Sure DirecTV knows how many people ordered.   DishNetwork knows how many people ordered.   Cable Providers Know.  The UFC knows.\n\nThe numbers we see are all best estimates.  The UFC isn't releasing the actual numbers.   I dont know the depth of Dave Meltzers sources, but he is respected as being pretty accurate.", 
        "In that case, I heard UFC 200 will get 7 billion views!  That's my prediction anyway.", 
        "Literally everyone in the world is buying this PPV, ya goof", 
        "Yeah IDK why my comment got down voted so hard, I thought saying 7 bil was clearly pretty jokey.  Maybe it was just a shitty joke.", 
        "They hate stereoisomers.", 
        "What does that word mean?", 
        "It's a chemical term related to the dude's username (racemic mixture)", 
        "Leaving it up like a soldier. My man.", 
        "No worries.  Tomorrow I will make an extremely mundane comment like \"Conor and Nate are both badasses\" and get 7 billion upvotes.", 
        "You can downvotes me to feel better ", 
        "The only people that think Meltzers numbers are accurate are people that don't have access to PPV numbers. Which is an odd confirmation loop.", 
        "So literally everyone in the World not directly Affiliated with the Corporate level of the UFC?", 
        "Do you not know what literally means? ", 
        "Are you literally asking me if I know what literally means?", 
        "Yes. Given you stated \"Literally everyone in the world... \" it leads me to wonder about your grasp on the word.", 
        "Are you literally going to continue responding to my posts about usage of the word literally?\n\nThis is an MMA forum not an English class.   I literally dont give a shit.", 
        "The PPV accounting department is just one really high dude.  \n\n\"How much did we make last month Bryce?\"\n\n\"I dunno. million something, whatever.\"", 
        "Immediately read that in Tom Segura's voice.", 
        "Ah yes, Bryce, the third Diaz brother.", 
        "They corrected it.\n\n> UFC 196 seemingly earned a 1.5 million PPV buy rate, which puts it right behind UFC 100", 
        "Must hurt them knowing that 100 ppv events later they still haven't topped it.", 
        "*96", 
        "it would have been 1.5 million and one had i not fallen asleep like an old man after a big dinner, ugh, i was so pissed when i woke up at 4am realizing i had missed watching this live", 
        "Don't blink!!  *shit* ", 
        "you went out like a warrior just like holly holm", 
        "I did, arm twitch and everything", 
        "I feel your pain.  My wife forced me into going to a wedding that night.  I realized when we got to the facility that I forgot to order the fight and record it.  Damn it!!!  Oh well...", 
        "Hey now, it would be weird to miss your own wedding. ", 
        "Now we know who to blame for not breaking that 1.6M mark. You're taking away everything Nate has earned!", 
        "I'm not worthy of the #209", 
        "I've been known to wake up during main event victory speeches on several occasions. ", 
        "I remember when Wonderboy fought Hendricks, I had a decent amount of money on Wonderboy and I woke up just as he started walking out. It felt so surreal watching him win in that half dream state feeling like it was destiny. ", 
        "Same thing happened to me during holm vs rousey.  Woke up in a half dream state like you said and watched rousey get demolished.  Almost thought I was still dreaming", 
        "That sounds pretty awesome.\n\nFor some reason I have multiple memories of falling asleep during Daniel Cormier fights. I woke up from the aftermath of Cormier knocking out Bigfoot, and I remember falling in and out of sleep during Cormier/Barnett and just generally being confused. Maybe Strikeforce events were later or something?", 
        "Cant wait to see what the next 3 PPVs do.   Obviously 200 should break this number with a Stacked card and a couple title fights.\n\nBut it will be interesting to see how all this momentum Conor brings translates to the other PPVs.", 
        "You can't wait to see how much the UFC rakes in for PPVs? ok", 
        "Um,   Yes? \n\n", 
        "lol I dunno ", 
        "I don't think it will obviously beat the record. This card sold based on drama, and casual fans loved it. I know plenty of ppl who don't ever watch mma, and they made a big event for this card. Stacked or not, it just won't beat this number. ", 
        "It doesn't hurt that Jones vs. DC is up next.", 
        "Bold prediction: UFC 200 won't break the record for most PPV buys ", 
        "I'd be surprised,  not with the momentum they are on and the stars aligning for the event. ", 
        "McGregor/RDA\n\nGSP/Lawler\n\nRousey/Tate\n\nOnly way I see the record being beat. ", 
        "Not really dude. UFC 196 set a record with just tate va holm and diaz v mcgregor. Robbie , RDA and Miesha in the same card will beat it eazily.", 
        "I don't think easily. This card sold because of the beef the main event fighters had. The title fight was a nice bonus for casuals. If you talked to non fans, they where excited to see the woman who beat Ronda defend her title. That and of course wanted to see the main event most of all. Most casual fans aren't super familiar with RDA, and only know miesha because Ronda beat her twice. Some of the best cards, with the best talent on then don't make much money. ", 
        "UFC 100 did 1.6mil. ", 
        "No one is buying the PPV for Lawler and RDA. Even if McGregor fights at 200, he doesn't have someone to play off of. Neither Aldo nor Edgar will drive interest as much as Diaz - not even close. They need GSP flat out or else they won't top 196.", 
        "Lawler and RDA are both draws. I think your underestimating their value.", 
        "Not really. Their numbers say otherwise. ", 
        "RDA is not a draw - nobody knows who he is. Lawler is a semi-draw within the established fanbase. But with McGregor already on the card and 1.5 million vastly exceeding the established consumer base of MMA, Lawler will not push PPV past 1.5. The only people who could do that at this point is Rousey and GSP.", 
        "McGregor didn't single handedly get 1.5 mil ", 
        "I never said that. He probably wouldn't even have got to 1 million with RDA. He needs a good partner, and Nate played that role perfectly. RDA is a complete unknown and doesn't say anything interesting. He's the exact opposite of a draw.\n\nI very much doubt McGregor marginally draws more at 200 than 196 since he doesn't have a good partner. That's why they need a Rousey/GSP to break the ceiling.", 
        "I know the card is going to be stacked but I don't foresee any of your predictions coming to fruition. McGregor vs Aldo or Edgar (he needs to defend his title).I don't see GSP coming out of retirement to fight lawler - I think GSP vs Diaz is more likely. I don't think Rousey will be ready by UFC200 - a Holm vs Tate rematch is probably more likely. ", 
        "Looks like Frankie won't be getting his shot and it'll be Conor/Aldo again, which will still sell obviously. Sober Jones might be chomping at the bit to get back in the mix so if he steamrolls DC like I think he will, maybe that could set up a fight with Rumble at 200. That might be too soon of a turnaround for Jon or Rumble might have something else lined up though, I don't know.", 
        "If only...", 
        "No way they can justify giving Conor RDA.", 
        "Yeah, that's literally not happening after Mcgaygor was rekt. ", 
        "Less popular fighters have gotten title shots for less ", 
        "Not rly", 
        "Gustaffson got a title shot vs Cormier off a loss to Rumble. ", 
        "Not in a different division though.", 
        "I don't think that matters. Conor is still FW champ, they can still spin champ vs champ. Although I think the Aldo rematch is at the top of the list. And that Frankie will probably jump from a bridge.", 
        "What about Sonnen ", 
        "Nick Diaz vs Gsp, Chael vs Jones, Tate-Rousey 2", 
        "None of those were 0-1 in the UFC in the division where they got a title shot.", 
        "Conor is 0-0 at lightweight in the UFC, m8", 
        "its getting pretty hard to see how stacked that card could be at this point\n\nedit: never mind. [wiki](http://i.imgur.com/VACbEhu.png) says the main event is Conor vs John Cena. that'll be huge.", 
        "I posted something the wiki had that was funny and got downvotes to hell you're gettin upvoted I'll prolly get downvoted for this but sometimes this sub is salty af ", 
        "What do you mean?", 
        "I think he means that lots of top fighters already have fights scheduled, but I feel like as a community we are all forgetting that 200 is essentially 5 months away. Guys fighting next month could still sign fights for 200 if they aren't injured. The PPVs have come at a slower pace this year than we were used to last year so it's throwing people off.", 
        "Just wanted to clarify because there are PLENTY of options to stack 200.", 
        "well Conor helps a lot, obviously, but what other big name is open? Mighty Mouse, Jones and DC are at 197, Werdum is at 198, Cruz/Faber and The Chris/Rockhold are at 199. Wonderboy v Red King is a fight night in late June.\n\nRobbie, I guess, but who's he gonna fight? ", 
        "GSP is coming to save the day. Just you watch", 
        "Conor vs Edgar, Aldo vs Holloway, Lawler vs Gsp/Woodley/Nick Diaz, Nate Diaz vs.?/?/?, and many more. ", 
        "Nick's suspension isn't up by 200", 
        "right, still there is a lot of match making that can be done for 200 i guess is al i'm thinking", 
        "Winner of Jones/DC can fight at 200, Lawler, RDA, GSP (maybe).", 
        "GSP vs Robbie Lawer main event than Conor vs Aldo II, Ronda Rousey vs Holly Holms number one contender, RDA vs Nate, Anderson Silva vs Jacare or Anyone in the Middleweight. Boom ", 
        "Looks solid mate, i think this is the only way Conor isn't the main event, if GSP returns to fight Lawler.", 
        "Bones doesn't historically fight very often.  He's fought no more than twice a year since 2012.  Cormier, on the other hand, does fight more than twice a year.  But, it would all depend on how much damage he takes in the rematch against a highly motivated Bones.  Maybe the winner does return quick for a fight at 200 but that's asking a lot.", 
        "How does someone who fights 1 time a year become #1 p4p? I've only been watching the sport for a year so I haven't seen a Jones fight live", 
        "P4P is just opinionated really but I do have him as #1 P4P. Youngest champ ever, undefeated, beat all the best people he can in one of the best weightclasses using their strengths against them except the HW division which I think he will do eventually.", 
        "I don't have him on P4P because P4P is for guys that are skilled but are considered \"too small\" to beat a bigger guy with those skills.\nLike if we strip away weight advantage from Frank Mir and Mighty Mouse who would win? That is what I see P4P as.\n\nAnd here is where I prove you right in saying P4P is opinionated as all hell by saying I don't consider Jones on P4P...... ", 
        "See that logic is kinda weird to me as who knows what other fighters would be able to do at a certain weight? I base it more on their achievements because then it has more substance than that because we just don't know, were as with the achievements we do.", 
        "That is what P4P means, but the fact remains that he's undefeated, and the youngest champ in the promotion's history, with tons of marquee wins.  He can still be P4P king even as LHW (or even as HW for that matter).", 
        "That's true, i guess it depends on how JJ/DC pans out", 
        "Conor Vs Aldo/Edgar\n\nJones/DC winner is not out of the question.  (Everyone wants to be on this card,  a title fight on PPV means PPV points if your looking for motivation for a quick turnaround)\n\nAnderson Silva\n\nGSP???\n\nRobbie Lawler Vs Nate Diaz/Condit/Woodley\n\n\nPlenty of options.", 
        "If gsp came back and fought someone I could see it doing decent. Diaz vs Lawler would sell. With no Brock on the card, I doubt it'll even match ufc 100.", 
        "> Robbie Lawler Vs Nate Diaz\n\nRobbie vs Nick would be more interesting but UFC 200 is in July and Nick's suspension end on July 31.\n\nDamn.", 
        "they'll never stack a card that good", 
        "Just laying out the options that will be/should be available.   Not saying thats what the final card would look like.\n\n\n", 
        "Not to mention a woman's title fight...", 
        "> Jones/DC winner is not out of the question.\n\nnot out of the question, no, but way faster than either have fought in a long time. its only 77 days between 197 and 200. DC went 140 days between Jones and Rumble (UFC 182 and 187), then 153 days between Rumble and Gus (187 and 192). it'll be 203 days between Gus and Jones.\n\nJones has only had 6 fights in the past 4 years (one in 2015, one in 2014, two in 2013, in April and September, and two in 2012, in April and September again). when he fights next, it will have been 476 days between fights. it'll be his second fight in 728 days, his third in 945 days (thats over 2 years and 7 months). \n\nside note: all 3 of those were 5 round decisions. it will have been 1,092 days since Jones finished a fight, a shade under 3 years (2 years, 11 months, 27 days), and that was v Chael Sonnen.  ", 
        "Yeah its a quick turnaround, no doubt.    But they have plenty of motivation to do it,  if healthy.  PPV points on a 1.5 million Plus PPV is much better then what they normally make.   Plus Jones has been out,  he is probably hungry.", 
        "Cena wins lol", 
        "Shit. John Cena is going to have a tough weight cut to 145. The dude is jacked ", 
        "He's not not jacked.", 
        "\ud83c\udfba\ud83c\udfba\ud83c\udfba\ud83c\udfba", 
        "Haha.  I don't follow professional wrestling at all, and never have.  But every time someone says the words \"John Cena\" that trump intro plays in my mind.  ", 
        "That radio show prank is what got it stuck in my head", 
        "With that kind of money i fear we might not see Nate in the cage anytime soon.. :( ", 
        "I saw someone say his deal was if he won that he would start getting 250K per fight. So if that's true, we may see a lot of Nate over the next couple of years.", 
        "He probably didn't get ppv points. His $500k was likely it, unless they decide to give him a huge bonus.", 
        "Well Conor did say he made Nate a millionaire and $500+$100 isn't a million.  He likely got some sort of undisclosed bonus from Zuffa.  ", 
        "Conor did say RDS' kids' names were Bob and Donald so Zuffa probably had him legally change them. ", 
        "He's been fighting once a year for 3 years. I wouldn't be surprised if we didn't see him for another year. Mother fuckers.", 
        "UFC 209 wut wut", 
        "Yeah boy!!", 
        "I mean his last 2 fights were 3 months apart ", 
        "He stepped in to replace an injured opponent... did you seriously forget that? ", 
        "Does that change the fact that he fought twice in 3 months? No shit he stepped up on short notice. ", 
        "Idiot", 
        "Don't think he did.. He's just saying he fought twice in a few months this past year already so maybe he thinks we'll see him again sooner.\n\nBut yes, I get what you mean. He was a replacement after already calling out Conor so this sudden fight doesn't really mean he's going to be fighting more often.", 
        "However it could be an indicator that he's willing to fight more often. ", 
        "Or he might come back for another big payday at 200 before disappearing into the sunset (probably after getting wrestlefucked unfortunately)", 
        "He'll disappear for 2 years, McGregor will win 15 in a row, he'll come back, beat McGregor again and then disappear into the woods. He'll be this mysterious ninja who appears once in a while just to keep McGregor in check.", 
        "What better way to keep someone in check than to bitch slap him into submission?", 
        "Real American Ninja shit.", 
        "Really curious about how much Conor or Diaz will make in their next fight", 
        "Diaz was making 20k/20k. \n\nThe Conor fight worked as an exception, I'd assume you get a custom contract when taking short notice fights.\n\nIf Diaz is not up for contract re-negotiation yet, then I don't see how his pay doesn't return to 20k/20k.\n\nI just really really really hope that Diaz got PPV points for the Macgregor fight. He could walk away with an extra $3 Million if he gets, say, $2 per PPV buy.\n\nLook at Nates history as a UFC employee. Look at Nates longevity, performances, and popularity. Dude should honestly be making like 75k/75k at the BARE minimum in my opinion.\n\nThough, I think something like 120k/120k would be more appropriate.\n\n**Late Edit:** We can potentially be staring down the barrel of a very rocky near-future for Nate Diaz. If he made $500k vs Mac. another $100K in fight bonuses.  Another potential $3 Million in PPV buy points............How are you going to convince a fighter who just made $3.6 million in his last fight, to step inside the octagon 4 months from now for $20,000???? Nate will throw a fucking fit (rightfully so) and Nate and UFC management will be at some dire odds.\n\n**Gigantic fucking rift incoming**, potentially.", 
        "the UFC will renegotiate his contract. With Conor they were basically renegotiating after every fight because of how fast his star was rising.\n\nWith Nate getting such a huge boost in exposure, he likely will too.", 
        "When you write \"75k/75k\" does that mean 75K for fighting and another 75K if he wins? If no, what does the way you're writing it mean ", 
        "Yes it is show $ / win $ \n\nSo let's say a fighter stands to make 200k (100/100). They can choose to take a smaller amount that's guaranteed win or lose or to take the show/win money. This is all stipulated in whatever contracts they sign. \n\nThere are also undisclosed \"locker room\" bonuses / sponsors / ppv points that is added to this number. ", 
        "At least he must be at the **higher** end of the reebok deal?\n\nEdit: well **that's** not how to do italics!", 
        "I like it. The emboldening of the letters was very subtle. ", 
        "I thought it was established that he did? I mean didn't Dana straight up say they might never see Nate diaz again because he made so much money off that fight? ", 
        "Diaz made that living room with big windows money ammarite?", 
        "When did he say that?", 
        "In an interview. I believe it was posted here. I'm not going to go hunting for it. ", 
        "This is what I fear.", 
        "im pretty sure dana was also quoted as saying \"nate made millions off this fight\"\n\nor multi 7's as conor would say", 
        "Conor will make bank again and Diaz will make money than he used to but less than 196", 
        "209/209", 
        "Just got so excited for UFC 209!!", 
        "At UFC 209 held on 4/20/2017 in Stockton. The old numbers are gonna go up in smoke!", 
        "Why do they mention upsets in the top fights as if they would affect the PPV numbers? Haven't people already purchased it by that point?", 
        "The PPV channels replay/sell the card for a while after. Maybe the upsets trigger people to buy it after they hear.", 
        "They don,t even give a discount for ordering a PPV after the fact, which is really pointless.", 
        "pointless buying after though, so many youtube videos of the fight.", 
        "Motherfucking wolf tickets ", 
        "So best guess Nate made 2m in additional pay", 
        "About 4.54 times his body weight in premium marijuana!", 
        "HAHA that is a word problem that would get college kids attention", 
        "That's probably so bittersweet for Mystic Mac.", 
        "Meh,  he got a major payday,  the fight was exciting and he didn't lose a belt. The only thing he lost was a bit of pride,  but losing is a part of the fighting game. ", 
        "He lost much more than \"meh\". lol You could see it in his eyes.", 
        "That was right after the fight,  of course his emotions will be on high. Now he had had some time to absorb the defeat and gain a bigger perspective. ", 
        "Can't call him that anymore..\n\nHe lost that name when he said he would KO Nate in the 1st.", 
        "Ok Master Of Knowledge. lol", 
        "You know it.", 
        "He said he would try to ko him in the first but Nate is durable so he predicted a 2nd round finish ", 
        "Still wrong.", 
        "Mistaken Mac, brought to you by Nate Diaz", 
        "He said that early on during the 10 day lead up, and then danced around the question every other time it was asked. \n\nIt was too late, Conor! We heard what you said! ", 
        "He also said he would KO Denis Siver in the 1st, and that he'd take Jose Aldo's head \"clean off\". The predictions have always been cherry-picked.", 
        "Thw Aldo prediction was not that far off. ", 
        "And he said he would rest his balls on Mendes' forehead", 
        "Mostly sweet though since he makes PPV points.", 
        "Financially for sure it's sweet for him but having lost in front of all those viewers cannot be good regarding the hype and all.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He lost a lot more than money that night.", 
        "The numbers will always be there as long as he's there. The only question now is whether he'll still talk trash to the extent that he did in 194 because that is what brings in the eyes.", 
        "And if he loses his next fight; which is very possible, he is fucked", 
        "That seems a little extreme. He goes from a champion to a top contender. A loss defending his belt, and then a loss against a top contender and, yeah, I would agree, he is not looking so mystic any more :)", 
        "Honestly, unless he goes on a crazy slide, I think as long as he's capable of going on a winning streak he'll always do big numbers. He's so good at promoting himself he can spin it as long as he's got a couple of wins under his belt.", 
        "people are forgetting that he got this famous because he has charisma and can talk, not because of his fighting. Skills alone don't sell.\n\nA loss doesn't take that away, he'll be fine.", 
        "Good for Nate. After reading the Nick Diaz [article](http://www.mmafighting.com/2015/9/14/9327767/nick-diaz-opens-old-wounds-on-a-dark-day-in-his-career) that finished with this quote :\n\n \"It's my bad he even got into this sport and he gets his face kicked in and they don't even pay him.\n\nI got us in this, and if I don't make any money, I don't have any way to get us out.\"\n\nIn really glad he had a pay day. \n\n\n\n", 
        "Agreed. Listening to nick speak about it hit me in the feels.", 
        "Who knew Nate Diaz was such a draw eh? ", 
        "Not much if you take Dana White words: 'Nate Diaz is not a needle mover'\n\nhttp://www.mmafighting.com/2014/7/18/5916043/dana-white-nate-diaz-is-not-a-needle-mover\n\n", 
        "So much damn grit. I really hope he fights Lawler next. ", 
        "We should leave that for Nick, 2 times! 2 times!", 
        "why do you hate Nate Diaz?", 
        "He's not a welterweight!", 
        "whyyyyyyyy? you know he's had a fight a ww and rory threw him around like a rag doll.", 
        "I think everyone thinks Robbie will stand and bang, which is pretty likely, and that would give Nate a better chance than he had fighting the likes of Rory. I still think Robbie would win personally, but it could be an entertaining fight for sure.\n\nIf they wanted to make this fight for UFC 200 alongside Conor defending his belt I wouldn't be mad. GSP-Lawler is the bigger draw though if they can make that happen. Now that I think about it, GSP-Nate might be the biggest possible draw between those matchups, so I wouldn't mind seeing that either, even though Nate probably loses via wrestle-fuck.", 
        "no way they put nate and conor on the same card so quick. Conor would be at a presser talkin shit while the guy who just beat his ass is sitting 10' away. ", 
        "Lol I know. I love nate but suddenly every forgets how the fight game works. Beat a smaller guy? Better move up to face a monster, because we literally just forgot how much size matters. Robbie would murk nate. Rda would murk him again even. People are fucking goofy man", 
        "So who should he fight? Everyone says how Nate should be pushed but growl at either title fights, what the fuck do you want.", 
        "BJ Penn thats the money fight right there ", 
        "I want him to fight the winner of Pettis/Barbosa because I think that'd be a bangin fight. Or cowboy again, that's a rematch that makes sense.", 
        "I mean RDA would probably win again but I don't think it would be as easy as last time, Nate was hurting.", 
        "After the way he savaged cowboy I would bet he'd be even worse this time", 
        "Nate beat a midget and is now pumped up", 
        "Nate was always my friend", 
        "Diaz brothers don't really move the needle. ", 
        "he didnt give a fuck, but we all did", 
        "I'm not surprised, motherfucker!", 
        "Pretty sure if the stack UFC 200 and have Conor headline they can crack 2 million", 
        "If Connor had beat Nate, and it was Connor vs. RDA/Lawler possibly...don't see that happening now.", 
        "I don't see how it could do 2m buys, that would be 33 percent more than this ppv which was the biggest in UFC history. They would have to have 3 big main event caliber fights plus.", 
        "This for sure isn't the biggest fight that UFC will have with Connor, FOR SURE. It could had been bigger if Connor would be fighting Nate from day one instead of the (pussy) Dos Anjos.", 
        "Dude beats up people for a living. ..what a puss! He isn't hard core like us on reddit", 
        "Not what I was trying to say, I wasn't saying that I would beat the living shit out of him, I probably would punch, hope for the best and run the living shit out of ME, he is a pussy for pulling out with the type of wound he had, on the other hand, Mcgregor fought Mendez (supposedly he would fight Aldo) during a ACL recovery time, he had the pain 4 months prior, so 4 months to shit on a at least 6 months recovering time, and he fitted a training camp and managed to be ready on time and fought and the guy had something come up a couple of weeks before the fight and he didn't thought on pulling, RDA and Aldo pulled out that makes them pussies, obviously, if they had something like the ACL, it would make sense, Connor only fought because he recovered abnormally fast.  \n  \nIn the end they are pussies on their game, I'm a pussy on theirs too, but at least I don't pretend to be a badass and make a living out of pretending that I'm a badass, I just train and show up at my friendly fights, hope for the best and try to not cry when we are doing roulette and a 120 kg bison is chosen to fight me.", 
        "Conor vs Aldo II\n\nRonda vs Miesha III (yes I know she said she won't fight by then but a guy can hope)\n\nRDA vs Diaz II\n\nRobbie vs Condit II\n\n<random heavyweight match up because that's how the UFC books PPVs>", 
        "Conor vs Frankie\nRonda vs Miesha III\nRobbie vs Nick Diaz II  ( A man can dream)\nRDA    vs Nate Diaz II\nCain   vs Travis (Since Cain won't fight for the belt on hin next fight)\n", 
        "I think Nick is suspended until later this year we haven't heard from Cain as to when he can come back from his back surgery", 
        "If Dana wants UFC 200 to reach a million PPV then he needs to put RDA vs Nate, Conor vs Aldo 2 and Miesha vs Ronda 3.", 
        "I think it's safe to say from now on any card that Conor is on will surpass 1 million buys.", 
        "I doubt diaz would even take that fight.", 
        "If the money's right I don't think Diaz would turn down anything", 
        "Nate got destroyed by RDA just over a year ago", 
        "That doesn't mean if they fight again the outcome would be the same. I'd love to see that fight now.", 
        "That and the money. If the Diaz brothers both never have to fight again I'd be happy for them.", 
        "GSP/ Conor/Ronda on one card would do the trick for sure", 
        "Imo Dana should make 200 all about revenge.\n\nThere's so many rematches begging to happen he should just pile them up;\n\nConor vs Aldo (championship)\n\nWeidman vs Rockhold (championship)\n\nHolly vs Ronda\n\nGsp vs Nate (to avenge his bro!)\n\n\nGuaranteed record breaker.\n", 
        "Holy crap that would be amazing. I like the revenge angle.", 
        "I think so. It seems to be a common theme that people are moaning about the number of automatic rematches at the moment but everyone agrees they'd be great fights. \n\nJust stick them all on one card.", 
        "On the other hand, Dana White said it.", 
        "I bought it on ufc.tv, I would like to know the number of those.", 
        "It was great. I bought the SD version and on my friends 80\" tv it looked fantastic. ", 
        "I have to look in to it. I never tried it, because I was afraid it's going to look like shit. How would you describe it? 720p?", 
        "I bought the HD and put it on my projector and it looked great. ", 
        "Yeah I think that's a fair assessment. I bought 194 in HD, and watched it on my tv which I think is about 42-46\" and that may have looked better but I couldn't tell. The difference in price is $10. And they offer you the choice of getting 50% off a six month subscription to fight pass as well. (ie you pay $60 for the ppv and an extra 25 or so for fight pass). ", 
        "Yeah, I don't think those are just US PPV, I don't think this takes into account international.\n\nI'm not sure if it counts, UFC tv or youtube or other the TV deals.", 
        "how was the video quality on that?", 
        "HD with 20 mb/s internet.", 
        "I wouldn't mind a fight pass subscription if my internet wasn't hovering a .6 mbps download and .36 upload... \n\nJust getting raped ", 
        "Still not 60fps", 
        "If UFC is going to sell, now is the time.", 
        "Nate Diaz got payed!", 
        "I just watch it for free in the UK...", 
        "People never fail to jump on some bandwagon and then predict that the downfall of this or that star fighter (McGregor) will be the UFC's undoing.\n\nNothing could be further from the truth.  The UFC thrives on the volatility of its roster, and Dana White really seems to enjoy putting fights together, whoever the combatants may be.", 
        "It's funny, every event theres someone posting some hackneyed \"Dana on suicide watch\" comment, but in actual fact the UFC has never been more successful.\n\n3 of the last 4 events broke 1 million buys, this kind of run is unprecedented.", 
        "Frankly, the UFC's business has been fascinating to watch.  They've had such a bold media strategy while fiercely protecting the brand.  Embracing technology and the Internet--10 years ago you could buy and watch live PPV events on UFC.com if you wanted to, and now Fight Pass seems to be coming into its own as the premier MMA video network.  This year will be their biggest yet, no doubt.", 
        "Clearly Nate just isn't a needle mover. ", 
        "Is it disclosed or estimated how much fighters will get from PPVs?", 
        "Conor's on 8 or 9 the most out of everone", 
        "Source?", 
        "3-5 dollars for each ppv buy\n\nallegedly", 
        "it needs to be more because Conor said he got 7 digits twice", 
        "Conor's on like 8 or 9$", 
        "Let's do some math: $60 a ppv, cable company gets 50%. That leaves the UFC with $30. If he gets $3-$5 that's 10-15%, which is a very reasonable number. They're not giving him more than that because they have a bunch of other stuff to pay for.", 
        "You haven't included the money they got from the gate. ", 
        "I assumed the gate went to cover show/win payouts. Is there a percentage share in there too?", 
        "yeah I wouldn't put much stock in what Conor says about his paychecks.  He certainly is paid well, but I question weather he's actually \"breezing\" past the 10 million mark.  ", 
        "i bet he's talking about total money after sponsorships, merch etc. i can see him making 5-7mil on the fight and the rest in everything else\n", 
        "UFC 189: 825,000 buys x $3-$5 = $2.4-$4.1 mil\n\nUFC 194: 1.1 mil buys x $3-$5 = $3.3-$5.5 mil\n\nThose are all seven digit numbers. \n\n", 
        "These guys are getting paid for sure but it's not an easy straight number calculation.  The UFC does tiered payouts.  And, the rate will be dependent on your individual contract that you negotiated.  So, Conor most likely is getting a bigger payout than the others even though they're all getting PPV points.", 
        "That's beyond the point. He said that the payouts must be more than $3-$5 per PPV buy, because Conor said he made 7 figures. My math showed that 7 figures is entirely possible at $3-$5 per PPV buy. ", 
        "I wouldn't say it's beyond the point.  Using the numbers from Eddie Alvarez's [leaked contract](http://www.mmafighting.com/2013/1/10/3856006/morning-report-eddie-alvarez-ufc-contract-immediate-title-shot-pay-per-view-revenue-bellator) from 2 years ago a frame of reference, you'll see a buy rate of 1.1M will get you $2.05M on the backend.  That's a lot of cash but not as much as the $3-$5 rates mentioned above.  I wasn't trying bash your numbers.  I was just offering up info about how the PPV rates are tiered rather than straight numbers.  It's safe to say that anyone on the 196 card with PPV points in their contract got paid very well.", 
        "1 mil is 7 digits", 
        "you are .... right", 
        "U r right", 
        "daaaaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyummmmmmmm, if Nate got some of that PPV funny money, he could afford TWO pirate ships!", 
        "The UFC does a tiered [PPV payout](http://www.mmafighting.com/2013/1/10/3856006/morning-report-eddie-alvarez-ufc-contract-immediate-title-shot-pay-per-view-revenue-bellator).  So it's not that he gets a full $3 per buy.  I've seen this with reports from other star contracts in the past as well.", 
        "Alvarez's structure according to the article you linked:\n> A tiered share of pay-per-view revenue, starting at \"$1 for each \u2018buy' between 200,000 and 400,000 buys, $2 per buy between 400,000 and 600,000 buys, and $2.50 per buy over 600,000 buys.\" \n   \nHis two PPV appearances at 178 (co-main) and 188 (co-main) did 205,000 and 300,000 buys respectively. \n\nConor is one of the biggest draws in the company's history and so I'd imagine his payout is double. If this is the case, he would have earned 5.6m from the PPV. Plus his 1m disclosed purse and whatever sweet deal he got from Reebok and Monster.   \n \nConor's PPV numbers are: UFC 178 (205,000) not main or co-main. UFC 189 (825,000). UFC 194 (1.2m). UFC 196 (1.5m)\n\nHe's a smart kid so I bet he's getting Zuffa to foot the bill on his Vegas rental homes/cars too. \n\nTL;DR: McGregor is making \"multi sevens\"", 
        "When Faber was on fighter and the kid, he said that it varied by fighter. The low end of the cut was about 1% (roughly what he was getting), and the high end of the cut was in the mid-3%. I wouldn't be shocked if Conor was higher than that. ", 
        "Well he is getting $1m to show, so it's not like it would be unprecedented for him to get unprecedented contract terms.\n\nWait.", 
        "when you say fighters, you mean the 2 main event fighters only, correct?", 
        "Yeah, ppv points aren't disclosed.\n\nBut I imagine everyone in the main and co-main are probably gonna get a good pay day.", 
        "Sooooooooooooo around 100 million dollars from the gate/ppv.  Paid out around what, at most 10 million in fighter pay?  ", 
        "Conor himself made over 10 million for the fight, way to just make shit up.", 
        "lol - he did huh?  And where did you get that info?  Also, I am not claiming that I didn't make it up - yes, the number I came to I got from guessing - was that not totally obvious to you?  ", 
        "Luke Thomas and others estimated Conor's pay to be 12-16 million for 194. And when Conor was on CNBC he stated he would \"breeze past\" the 10 million dollar mark.\n\nAnd yes, it was very obvious, which is why I called you out for making shit up.", 
        "Did you include 2 champs with ppv points?", 
        "They got 2 mill for show money.  The rest of the fighters, not even a million? ", 
        "PPV points paid them out multiple millions each. The way it works is you get like between $2 to $5 PER PPV BUY, which in this case was 1.5M buys.", 
        "I'm pretty sure one of them ~~brushed~~ breezed passed the 10 milly mark easy.", 
        "Ok, lets say it's 20 million.  So what?", 
        "If we say 20 million, that's more than 10 million in fighter pay.", 
        "Why thank you for your input, 20 is indeed more than 10.", 
        "PPV is complete smoke and mirrors for the most part. Traditional PPV only covers the US,Canada and Australia. Sometimes the UK but not often. \n\nThe UFC is selling the fight at reduced rates across the world from what people are talking about . Usually those territories get the fights for free in return for license fees under the boxing model of PPV.\n\nSo the question becomes, is this PPV number just for the traditional sources? Or are they including all sources in their number for PPV buys? So the scratchpad math can be difficult to estimate.\n\nBut I agree with your main premise, fighters are on the very low end of the split with the promoter. If you look at someone like Pacquiao who had a traditional fighter/promoter relationship, he was getting 75% of the PPV revenue and the promoter 25% and they were paying the b-side fighter two to three times what an entire UFC card is paying out. So the cries of \"But the gives points!\" are kind of funny in comparison.\n\nThe UFC is rich and poor at the same time. Rich when talking to the media, poor when talking to fighters.", 
        "The greatest thing about PPV buys is that you can make up any number you want. I'm sure the fight did very well but it's not like we will ever know the real numbers behind any event.\n\nIn the 90s they used to give the breakdowns of PPV events as far as buys between platforms and money raised but then promoters wanted to mask events that didn't do so well so they stopped reporting them.", 
        "Dave Meltzer has sources for North American PPV, so if you're skeptical of Dana just wait and see what he says.", 
        "Oh. Sources! Well say no more! \n\nHas Meltzer ever broken down his numbers by provider?", 
        "Red panty night", 
        "I don't know why the increase in stream availability and people who take advantage of them is never discussed when PPV buy numbers come out. ", 
        "You really think an MMA publication wants enlighten people that there are ways to get a $50 product for free?", 
        "No, I'm talking about when sources present the number to the fans who then interpret them. In other words, the fans discussing it. Of course I don't expect news outlets to mention streaming.", 
        "Gotcha", 
        "First UFC event I purchased and watched at home since Hendricks/GSP.", 
        "Goood biiizness! ", 
        "Hope diaz got PPV points, even if it was like \u00a225 for every buy.", 
        "They also gave a 20% discount for Fight Pass subscribers. I was kinda meh about the rest of the card besides the two main fights, so was considering streaming the fight, but the lowered price sealed the deal for me.", 
        "Brock still the king. ", 
        "That's like $100 mil. Not bad considering most of those fighters probably didn't get 40k/40k to split with their managers.\n", 
        "They also didn't bring the majority of the eyes to buy the ppv. The people that brought the numbers got paid", 
        "Is that the most ever? ", 
        "How much is that in $?", 
        "90million?", 
        "I would say $135,000,000 with a net profit in the $70,000,000 range.", 
        "+ ~$20million in tshirt profits for a grand total of $90million", 
        "I think the HD Stream is a really weird place...", 
        "You don't believe it did 1.5 million PPVS. Your opponents did. ", 
        "the power of lord mac \n\n\n\n-conor bless", 
        "can anyone put this into perspective?", 
        "They made well over $100,000,000 profit off one event alone. ", 
        "Holy smokes! What does this mean for Diaz and Connor?", 
        "I doubt Diaz got any PPV buys. Maybe an additional couple hundred thousand dollars bonus. Connor probably made over $10,000,000.00 before taxes. ", 
        "Just live in the UK and watch it for free.", 
        "I d really like to know if NAte had PPV points. Hope he made a lot of money.", 
        "mystic mac was right the numbers keep goin up..", 
        "Probably not in the best interest but could we see a PPV card with all title fights?", 
        "Just guessing here, but based on Lorenzo's comment that Conor is on track to be the first UFC fighter to make $100M. This pay per view probably brought in an estimated $75M ($50 avg ppv cost). Assuming Conor takes a 10-15% cut of that, he's bringing in $7.5M - $11M. So he would need about ~10 fights to get to $100M. He's got 3 maybe 4 big fights in, so he's close to half way maybe.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">Ronda made 5M in her biggest event.\n\nNope. She made 10m to beat Bethe Correira. Source: Rich Eisen.", 
        "He brought home at least 7.5M only on ppv buys (contract on ppv: he will be getting $3\u00a0for every PPV sold if the numbers are between 300,000 to 500,000 and anything above 700K buys McGregor will earn $4 or even $5 for every PPV sold.)", 
        "Where did you get 10-15% from? ", 
        "Estimating what is reasonable to get to the $100M mark", 
        "> Assuming Conor takes a 10-15% cut\n\nHe assumed", 
        "Cable companies take approximately half, so UFC probably clears about $25-30 per buy. (WWE is a public company and published their revenue numbers from which you can work out the PPV cut).", 
        "That's a fuckin lie if I ever heard one ", 
        "\"In this sport, we put the best against the best, or sometimes we do crazy stuff like on Saturday night, where Conor McGregor says 'I want to fight Nate Diaz\"\n\nimplying these guys AREN'T the best? how rude dana", 
        "\"sometimes the best guys fight, sometimes we let Conor pick guys out of camp, whatev's\"\n", 
        "He picks guys who are in camp,  but they don't show up.", 
        "chad over frankie, nate over cowboy \n\ntraining camp vs being on holiday both times", 
        "Edgar was not in training camp for 189, that was for the December card,  but Aldo didn't pull out that time. Also,  cowboy was the easier fight there.. he is a slow starter and Conor is a 1st round killer.  You people are ridiculous though.. Conor risks his title shot and takes top wrestler on short notice when he was training for Aldo and that's not good enough? Jon Jones wouldn't even take Chael Sonnen.. Belfort,  Rothwell, Werdum, Porier all declined short notice opponents. DC took Patrick Cummins.. ", 
        "Holy Moly", 
        "Is anyone else suspicious theyre slowly building the numbers so it seems reasonable when they say 200 beat 100? Seems like a good branding idea to make it seem like they beat old numbers", 
        "I bet GSP vs 209 II(Nate Diaz) does 1.6 Mil PPV.", 
        "TMZ doesn't know who GSP is though", 
        "Bit disappointed to be honest, all this talk of record braking shit, was expecting millions, like 2m+.  Happy none the less for the main eventers", 
        "1.5 million ppvs is a ton in this age. There are many more ways to view the fight than on PPV, so getting that many buys is nuts. Globally and with digital buys, it probably easily did over 2 million.", 
        "Ya I bought it through xbox live, is that digital or just ppv? \n", 
        "Probably at least 100-200k payperview buys here in Australia, my mum who knows nothing about MMA was asking about the 'girl who beat Ronda' losing.  There was lines and waiting lists to get into bars at 8am Sunday (fight pass prelims start at 10am) just to see the fights", 
        "Are you sure these ppv numbers only include cable ppv sales? I would think that they always include digital sales", 
        "Why don't they just shut the fuck up about how much they rake in and concentrate on putting on great shows and looking after fighters. Fucking get over yourselves", 
        "wonder how long this steady incline will continue", 
        "Wow that's impressive sucks for UFC business wise going forward", 
        "lol wut?", 
        "Maybe if ppv was not  70 dollars a show.. And more like  30 bucks a showing  .. People wouldn't illegally stream it .. They stealing people's money charging 70 bucks a show .. ", 
        "Where do you live that it was $70?  The YouTube stream was $50.\n\nEDIT - Should add, I'm in the US.  ", 
        "If they dropped it down to $30, that means that 3M+ people would have had to buy this for them to make the same amount of money. I have a hard time believing that would happen.", 
        "No way do they already have numbers.", 
        "Both guys deserve it,  neither choice is wrong.\n\nI'm excited for either one.\n", 
        "I think Aldo deserves it 7% more... but you're right, it's a close call.\n\n(I guess Frankie did lose to Aldo... so I'll give Aldo the nod here).", 
        "This is the only correct answer. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Filthy casual detected", 
        "There have only been 2 FW champions in the history of the division.  So many other former champs get instant rematches and so should Aldo.", 
        "THey would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English. Uhg -- please no. It's all been done. And what's the story line? THe last fight was a bust, Aldo might do better this time? \n\nHow about Frankie, who has been on a tear and just knocked out Mendes in the first round. Comparatively, Conor took out Mendes at the end of the second AND Mendes took the fight on a few days notice AND Mendes had Conor in deep water. It's a much better story line for the UFC and Frankie deserves it.   ", 
        "Who really cares about how they market it though, outside of the ufc? Shouldn't we just want to see good fights between top fighters? Why do you care about how it's marketed?", 
        "I don't -- at all. But Conor people do. ", 
        "Well okay...reading your comment it really seemed like you did. But whatever.", 
        "Got to speak Conor to Conor people. They are more like Conor fans than MMA fans. And they are not athletes or students of the sport -- they just live through that guy. Just trying to speak their language to get them on board. ", 
        "MMA existed before Conor turned up on your timeline, bud.", 
        "Dominated the Division for a Decade.   \n\nFirst fight only lasted 13 seconds after a single punch.   Leaves many questions still to be answered about if Conor truly is the better featherweight.   \n\nI agree its Frankies turn,   but to dismiss Aldo as a credible opponent is pretty shallow.\n\n", 
        "THey would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English. Uhg -- please no. It's all been done. And what's the story line? THe last fight was a bust, Aldo might do better this time? ", 
        "Story Line?       It was a fluke.  Long time Dominant Champ sets out to reclaim what he feels is still his.   Conor sets out to silence the doubters, to prove it wasnt a fluke.    \n\nThat, and its Conor McGregor,  the Biggest PPV draw the company has ever had,  vs Jose Aldo the greatest FW of all time.    That Fued isn't over and done with 13 seconds and a single Punch, no matter how spectacular that was.\n\nSells it self.\n\nI dont know how any level headed MMA fan would disagree with this fight needing to happen.   My only theory is Conor fans who want to avoid the threat of Conor losing his belt.   Or Perhaps if you really like Frankie Edgar and want to see him get his well deserved shot at the title.", 
        ">It was a fluke. \n\nIt was a fluke! We promise the next one will be better. Let's market this and try to create hype a THIRD time inside of 1.5 years. \n\n> Conor sets out to silence the doubters, to prove it wasnt a fluke. \n\nIf the point of Conor's next fight is REALLY to silence doubters then the choice of opponents is super obvious. \n\n> That, and its Conor McGregor, the Biggest PPV draw the company has ever had, vs Jose Aldo the greatest FW of all time. \n\nThat's already been marketed for like a YEAR straight for TWO fights. \n", 
        "Yeah it has been marketed for an entire year.   And the PPV was Massive.   \n\nSomehow that discredits a potential rematch?   Nope,  it just means a lot of the ground work is already in place for another huge PPV.", 
        "The marketing was all about Conor, not Aldo. The Aldo thing is played out -- time to move on. Frankie is a new and exciting story to talk about, while keeping the anchor in place -- Conor. ", 
        "The Aldo thing is not played out.\n\nYou should of just led this whole thing off with \"I prefer the Frankie Edgar fight\"\n\nNeither option is bad for the UFC.  Both will do very well commercially.", 
        "The Aldo thing is played out. Over a year of marketing and then a bust with a guy who doesn't speak English and is injury prone. It's Frankie's time. ", 
        "But Frankie has done everything asked of him to get the shot.", 
        "Thats not my Point.   Frankie Absolutely deserves a title shot and I even prefer he gets it first.\n\nI just like arguing with people who try to say Aldo doesnt deserve it.\n\nThey both fucking deserve it.", 
        ">what's the storyline?\n\n...*recalls with fondness the pre-Conor days when merit was a thing and the WWE fans only turned up to watch the Brock fights*...", 
        "I'm with you. Look at my recent posts. The real fans and students of the sport want to see the best fight.", 
        "All this talk about marketing and story line and all I want to see is two quality fighters go at it. Who gives a shit about how they have to sell the story? Let Dana worry about that. You enjoy a fight between Conor and a guy that ran the division for a decade or a guy that has fought up a weight class and been successful. No matter how they sell it the fans will win. ", 
        "And a \"warm up\" fight for aldo wouldnt be a bad idea so he gets his confidence back. I think the fight with conor would have at least been longer had aldo not been out for over a year going into it", 
        "Which is why Dana pushing the fight back really is hurting him.", 
        "Conor Vs Frankie....\n\nIf Frankie wins:\n\n- Give Max a shot against Frankie, he earned it.\n\n- Rematch Conor & Aldo for next title shot.\n\nIf Conor wins:\n\n- Rematch Aldo Vs Conor\n\n- Max Vs Frankie for top contender. \n\nJust a thought, I just think it's unfair to leave Holloway out of the picture.\n\n\n\n\n", 
        "You really think it would be feasible business wise though to have Featherweight go from all the Conor/Aldo drama and excitement to Frankie/Max for the title? ", 
        "I'd rather see Frankie vs Aldo and McGregor vs RDA for UFC 200.\n\n\nEven if that means Conor loses again it would still be 2 really awesome fights. \n\n\nPepper in a little GSP vs Lawler(or lawler vs anyone really) and we'll all collectively blow our wads in one 5 hour period of fights. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "This whole whats right for the UFC vs whats the cool fight thing is just annoying. I just want to see awesome fights. McGregor vs RDA is a more intriguing fight than Aldo or Frankie. Also, He could lose to anyone so thats kind of a silly way of thinking about it. I agree that the UFC probably wouldnt do it though. Its just lame that they wont. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I completely agree, I just those fights arent as good as McGregor vs RDA. The whole \"this fight is better for the business\" idea is lame. I get it though. ", 
        "> Max Vs Frankie for top contender.\n\nWhat if Frankie wins that? You give Frankie ANOTHER shot at the title? ", 
        "No way Aldo fights if it's not for the belt IMO", 
        "No way in hell Holloway would get a shot before Aldo. They are giving Chris Weidman a rematch, probably going to give Ronda another shot at the belt, even Cain was supposed to get one after getting fucked up by Werdum. If they don't give Aldo a shot at the belt in his next fight after 9 straight defenses of the belt, including one over Frankie that's bull shit. Not saying he should get it next, but he shouldn't have to fight a title eliminator to get his shot, because they have given rematches to far less deserving former champs. \n", 
        "Frankie vs. Aldo II makes 100 times more sense to do if Conor loses. Then you can set up Conor/Max II winner gets shot after (if Conor stay 145)", 
        "Yeah that sounds good too, would love to see max take on conor with all the improvements he made and the win streak he is on.", 
        "This is a good approach.", 
        "If Conor defends the belt against Aldo/Edgar I would still like to see the Conor v RDA fight. I know the assumption is he would get destroys by RDA due to the Diaz loss but the styles are so much different and I guarantee Conor is working on that bjj and not more \"touch butt in the park\" :)", 
        "Conor didn't lose because he has poor BJJ or he has a movement coach. He lost because his boxing didn't match up well against a very high level boxer who's longer, rangier and bigger. It's that simple.\n\nConor has a great match up in RDA who looks to be an easier fight than a Nate rematch.", 
        "You might be right about his bjj, but he didn't defend that choke like someone who was anything above a beginner at bjj. ", 
        "Conor has really good bjj but he was gassed and knocked stupid. I think he needs more cardio work to adjust to his new weight when fighting at different weight classes.", 
        "Yeah, I agree with the weight. He shouldn't of tried to put on 10 pounds and fight without having time for cardio. You can't put on 10 lbs and keep the cardio up. ", 
        "No way he deserves RDA, I'm not even sure he can beat anyone in the top 5 of lightweight.", 
        "Don't know why you're getting downvoted, Conor hasn't done jack shit at LW to deserve a title shot, the fact that he even got a title shot with RDA was a disgrace. Getting clowned by a fat Diaz (who arguably isn't even a top 5 LW) only solidifed that fact.\n\nConor needs to work up at LW, he hasn't done jack shit to deserve a title shot.", 
        "I didn't say he would deserve it but that I'd like to see it. A lot of UFC fights go off of hype or who is willing to fight at that time and not who deserves what fight. ", 
        "Diaz has an iron chin and McGregor underestimated it.  The dude has never been KO'd.  McGregor needed a different approach. ", 
        "I think he will need to prove himself first before getting RDA. Pettis would take that fight right away if they offered him, and he's credible enough to make Connor regain some morale at 155.", 
        "Not sure why you got downvoted, but getting submitted by Nate Diaz really doesn't warrant a title shot. \n\nNate was ranked 9th in the division before the fight. Losing to him should get you, at best, a top 10 fight but more likely a top 15 fight. \n\nIf Conor is looking to move up again, a fair match for him would be Al Iaquinta or may be Michael Johnson.", 
        "I think people are underestimating how good Nate got from having a lot of time between fights.  There's a lot to be said about being able to just work on everything, instead of constantly preparing for an opponent/fight.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I think it's an over reaction / correction stemming from too many people saying Conor was dominating until he got caught by a lucky shot", 
        "Yep. He didn't fight smart and lost due to his love for his hands. No reason to think he's not cut out for LW", 
        "I have to agree. Conor did well in the first round. With prep and a better game plan he could avenge that loss possibly. ", 
        "I have to imagine he was preparing for a different type fighter. Its not like leben and wanderlei", 
        "I think more experience fighting at natural weights would make a big impact, too.  Diaz won awesomely, and I love me the 209, but  Nate ate some big shots there.  If McGregor fought more like a modern Robbie Lawler things coulda gone real different.", 
        "If it was my call, I'd say Frankie just because Aldo lost to Conor and I want to see Frankie go at it. Logic wise, wouldn't be crazy at all to give it to Aldo because of how long Aldo was at the top of FW. \n\nMy selfish view is give it to Frankie but it's not like I am not gonna watch the Aldo rematch.", 
        "Logic wise, Aldo got KO'ed in 10 seconds so he does not deserve an instant rematch. ", 
        "I thought Frankie broke his penis recently. Will he be ready to fight by UFC 200?", 
        "Huh? ", 
        "I'm a big Aldo fan, but I honestly think Conor destroyed him mentally and that he wouldn't win a rematch.  Not just with the shit talk, but then the KO after that.  That has to screw with a persons head big time.  I view it like Silva vs Weidman.  When someone is at the top like that for so long and they get knocked down, it seems to be extremely difficult for them to get back up and make their way back up there.  I hope I'm wrong, but I just don't see him beating Conor.  Even if skill wise he's capable, mentally he has to be broken.  ", 
        "I gotta say Frankie. He was denied his title shot after beating cub, Faber and Mendes. And him going in there doesn't put Aldo further back (as far as fights go) the guy just got a half a million dollar pay day, he can wait an extra six months for another. Frankie however in his last three wins you could say he's earned himself a title shot, and if he doesn't get it now then someone like Holloway might get paired up with him or a win in the meantime. Then you need to choose between him and Holloway. I think it has to be Frankie, then Aldo can come back later in the year ", 
        "But Frankie lost to Aldo, it cuts both ways really well.\n", 
        "Barely though. Almost completed the comeback", 
        "3 years ago..........", 
        "If you compare the fact that Aldo was the champion for 10 years and add the fact that he already beat Frankie years ago, it's hard to say who is more deserving.", 
        "He was undefeated for 10 years, not champion.  Although, since he defended the belt 9 times, your argument still stands.", 
        "3 years ago and by decision, Aldo did not dominate him one bit.", 
        "I really like the Aldo rematch too though.   I know he just lost,  but he lost in 13 seconds by one punch.   We didnt even get to see them fight.   A lot of questions still to be answered there.   The build up to that will be awesome too.\n\nI'm a fight junkie,  give me either.", 
        "Aldo vs. McGregor 2:  Aldo KO's McGregor in 13 seconds. Dana springs a boner.", 
        "I get why people say \"we didn't even get to see them fight\" but I just don't agree with that statement.\n\nWe did see them fight. Aldo got KO'd in 13 seconds. It was a fight and Aldo lost.\n\nI understand we didn't *really* get to see how their skills matched up, but it was still a fight.\n\nI don't really mind either matchup either, but I'd much rather see Aldo at a later date when he has time to properly recover and train.", 
        "Absolutely no one said this about Matt Serra, but that's because Serra was a huge underdog. Even though logically nothing is different (it's actually even more dramatic with Aldo v Conor), everyone just says \"yup they fought, what's next\". If Conor was a +900 underdog rookie, not a single person would be doing anything other than demanding a rematch. \n\nIf Aldo and Conor fight 100 times, how many times in your opinion does it end on literally the first punch thrown?\n\nI don't even care, I'd rather see Frankie, but it's stunning how illogical people are about this. \n", 
        "I just want to see some leg kicks. Aldo has wicked leg kicks and he decided to rush out with a big over hand right.", 
        "He sets up those leg kicks with that combination he threw.", 
        "It would be best to give Aldo closer to a year to recover from his concussion.  That wasn't slight.", 
        "Not a bad factor to consider.  But if a fighter is cleared by a doctor to fight,  he will fight.", 
        "I'll of course watch either but I'm tired of a rematches everytime a champion loses. ", 
        "We would have built up to *three* Conor Aldo fights in less than 18 months. I wonder how Conor would shit talk Frankie. He can't really pull the 'well at least I put myself out there and took a fight at the weight above' card since Frankie was LW champ. ", 
        "At this point his entire shtick is basically 'I've got more money than you' anyway. Until the Dan Bilzerian followers stop cheering, I don't see him changing up that approach.", 
        "I don't think it matters if people stop cheering. He's following Mayweather's angle.", 
        "Mayweather backed it up.", 
        "In a situation where there is no other serious contender I would give Aldo the rematch in a heartbeat but Frankie is a serious contender. In my opinion Frankie first, then the Aldo rematch (assuming Conor actually beats Frankie) makes more sense.", 
        "Put Holloway and Aldo on as well, MAx deserves a No.1 contender shot. ", 
        "Yeah going Frankie first is not the wrong choice.   I'm hyped for Both matchups.   \n\nWhenever the fight is announced,  I'll be here to celebrate and debate with whoever thinks their fighter is getting shafted.", 
        "They would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English and was a 13-second bust in the most highly anticipated fight in UFC history. That's a problem. Give it to Frankie, who just knocked out the beast that is Mendes in the first period (when Mendes actually had a training camp). ", 
        "This is the reason I think they'll go with Frankie. Instead of marketing the same fight for the third time, new challenger, new hype, bring in more new viewers. After Aldo pulling out the first time, I don't think Dana is looking to do him any favours. But, who knows! ", 
        "Too be fair though. Mendes had a soft chin situation. IMO he fought too soon after the Connor fight.\n\n", 
        "And we know what Aldo did to Mendes.", 
        "Same. I want both", 
        "Aldo should rest his brain some more before he steps in right away for a rematch.", 
        "Rest from a one punch fight?", 
        "Plus the two shots when he was out", 
        "When you are KO'd unconscious your brain needs time to rest, whether the fight lasted 13 seconds or 24 minutes is irrelevant. If your lights completely shut off the brain needs time to recover.", 
        "For a comparision, Mendes was six months removed from the Conor TKO loss before getting floored by Frankie. UFC 200 would put Aldo at six months since getting the lights shut off. \n\nDespite only being 29, this is Aldo's 12th year of fighting proffesionally. Most guys who get knocked out that far into their career usually don't return to 100%.", 
        "guys really need to take more time off after KO losses, but most of them don't get paid enough to lose all income for a year or more. [pickett fought 6 months, presumably back in the gym after 2-3 months after getting one shot \"that dude might be dead\" KO'd by Almeida. ](http://i.imgur.com/dz28Rs0.webm)", 
        "Absolutely this.  He didn't just get knocked out, he got his head bounced on the canvas.  He needs to recover.", 
        "> his head **clattered off** the canvas\n\nFTFY", 
        "Yeah, I think everyone wants to see Conor and Aldo go for at least a few rounds. The first fight while amazing in its own right was a let down of sorts. It's an interesting stylistic striking matchup. We know Conor can put away Aldo with his left now. That was a question going into the first match. If Aldo jumps back in prematurely it could end similarly to the first. We don't want it going the same way as Frankie vs Chad.", 
        "I agree.   \n\nFrankie First.... Let Aldo rest.   Aldo fights winner.   I just desperately want to see McGregor/Aldo II at some point.", 
        "> Aldo fights winner.\n\nOnly works if Conor wins. I guarantee if Frankie won Aldo would have to get through Conor for a shot. \n", 
        "I think if Conor beats Frankie he's gonna campaign for a rematch with Nate", 
        "I honestly believe that if Conor does beat Frankie he will say something about clearing out the division and move up because that weight cut will eventually kill him", 
        "Part of me wants Aldo/Holloway in the meantime, but it would suck if aldo lost that.", 
        "Holloway/McGregor 2 wouldn't be bad either, since Holloway has come a long way.", 
        "FW is ridiculous right now. Those 3 have legit arguments for title shots but one of them probably won't make it.", 
        "Haha are you serious?", 
        "No.", 
        "100% agree - winner gets winner, loser gets loser.", 
        "Mendes/Hollaway. Imo", 
        "Leave Mendes alone :(", 
        "It would be a fun fight but I dont see Aldo fighting unless its for a belt.", 
        "Which is a shame, he needs to adopt a more Cerronious attitude", 
        "Conor vs Frankie at 200, Winner faces Aldo in December. Enough time for him to rest and gives Conor some buffer zone if he still wants to do a LW fight in the meantime.", 
        "If conor faces aldo and loses, then Frankie should fight Aldo so that CMcG Frankie fight loses its sheen. \n\nBut if CMcG fights Frankie and loses, he still has the Aldo fight because that still has relevance, to see what a 'real' fight will be. \n\nAnd if he wins either fight the order doesn't matter. \n\n\nSo it should be Frankie next. I imagine a first round finish for McG, that Frankie chin has taken too much damage. ", 
        "See where you're coming from. This would work. Does any part of you think Aldo and Frankie should fight to see who earns the title shot? Or is this more about setting up Conor's next fight?", 
        "I get that 200 is a big event since it's a nice round number. And I may be biased towards sports that bracket competitions. Further, I'd love to see Frankie get a shot. But if I'm thinking in purely logical terms wouldn't Frankie Aldo to see who fights McBithcslapped make the most sense?", 
        "Could be a really ballsy move if they go with Frankie. A lot of people are expecting Frankie to win this fight, it could be one of those fights for McGregor that proves the doubters wrong or could really stall his legacy at the UFC", 
        "I think McGregor has a better chance, but I love how we are talking realistically about these fights now, instead of saying how conor is in another universe than everyone else. Maybe I'm just annoyed at schaub though. ", 
        "I'm still going to go with McGregor but i was going to mainly form my opinion on Conor vs Egdar depending on how Conor deals with RDA however because we've not seen that i'm still not entirely sure.", 
        "Definitely not an easy fight, and on the flip side, the fight with frankie should tell us a bit about he would do against RDA ", 
        "You can't play safe with Conor's career now, and I think he's more than aware of it - which is why he has such a positive attitude of taking on whoever.", 
        "Yeah, but beating edgar would cement his featherweight legacy in a pretty solid way. He would have wins over the top 4 contenders at that point. \n\nThe guy wants to have a real legacy, so he's going to have some really tough fights. Hell, he was just about to fight dos anjos, who can be argued as a worse matchup than edgar or diaz.", 
        "That's true but he had a lot less to lose against RDA", 
        "He's the featherweight champion, this comes with the territory.  You don't get any easy fights when you're at the top.", 
        "but notice the distinct difference between conor's belt and other peoples belts\n\nmeisha when asked who she wants to fight next (like most champs) - \"whoever they put in front of me, its my job to defend this belt\"\n\nconor was asked the same question at the conference and its all about sitting down and thinking about who makes 'more sense'. its no secret he gets the choice", 
        "I get this, the Aldo fight ain't an easy fight either, i just felt it made more sense.", 
        "I don't agree with giving the champ the most favorable matchup.  It should be the best matchup.", 
        "I still think Aldo is the better choice because it'll be a better fight and there's history there, however the majority disagree", 
        "Frankie is a very technically gifted fighter, there is no way Connor/Frankie is boring.  There's going to be so much to watch.", 
        "He is very gifted i just feel he is going to try and grind Conor for a few rounds.", 
        "I just want to see Frankie first.", 
        "It is a fight that needs to happen though. Mcgregor wins then the hype is back up. If they don't fight everyone will say he is ducking him", 
        "We literally said the same thing about Aldo fight.", 
        "True i just felt the safer option was to fight Aldo at 200 and then potentially have Egdar there. I guess picking Aldo would've likely ended up being short notice Egdar anyway.", 
        "I never thought the day would come, when Aldo would be seen as the easier fight.", 
        "Man you know times have changed when people are saying Aldo is an easier fight", 
        "True that, i just think it suits McGregor better stylistically, definitely not an easy fight though. ", 
        "Terrible match up for Conor in my opinion. Quick hands, happy to get into deep water and will have the wrestling to take him down. \n\nPersonally if I was the UFC, I'd throw him back in with Aldo first...two loses is difficult to re start the hype train. ", 
        "a) I've heard the UFC and McG have a somewhat strained relationship right now.\n\nb) props to connor for taking all comers. I think he'd have to lose like 10 in a row for the fans to abandon him, he's very very charismatic.", 
        "Interesting. \n\nAnd to be honest, is it out of the equation for him to lose, put his career on hold for a year and do some TV work? He could easily get some roles if he's allowed to play a natural role. ", 
        "Conor's always been vocal about wanting to fight and not giving a shit about hollywood, he just wants money. I couldnt imagine him EVER pulling a Ronda", 
        "a) Dana White himself said that is absolute bullshit and that he enjoys and fully respects Conor. I believe the interview is on MMAFightingonSBN; Dana White interview with Ariel.\n\nb) Agreed, but no way he's gonna lose 10 in a row lol.", 
        "Oh Dana white said it?\n\nMust be true then.", 
        "You must know better than himself then.", 
        "You fucking goof - how many twitter followers do you even have?", 
        "You're on steroids", 
        "He lies literally all the time.\n\n", 
        "> I think he'd have to lose like 10 in a row for the fans to abandon him, he's very very charismatic.\n\nI actually think that Conor is the type of fighter whose appeal is seriously hurt after he loses fights.\n\nConor built almost all of his fan appeal by doing two things: Tremendous amounts of trash talk and backing it all up by winning lots of fights in a dominant fashion. And the thing about trash talk is that the fans LOVE IT... as long as you win. If you trash talk and lose, it makes your loss even worse. Hell, look at the way Conor has been received after his loss to Diaz. There have been tons and tons of videos mocking him for his predictions. His appeal isn't completely gone, because that loss didn't really damage his standing at all; his lightweight title run is on hold, but he's still the featherweight champion. If he immediately loses to Jose or Frankie, losing his featherweight championship, then make no mistake, all of the shit he talked is going to be thrown right back in his face. \n\nI think Conor's next fight is going to be the most important of his career. If he suffers back to back losses to Nate and Frankie, his stardom is over. He'll still be a big name, but the days of Conor McGregor being the biggest name in the UFC will be over. Almost all of his fans are going to turn on him. We only love a fighter like Conor when he's winning.", 
        "Connor's gotta lose a lot of fights for this fanbase to turn.  There's a group who haven't accepted that he lost to Nate.  He jumped up two weight classes and all that noise.  \n\nFanboy stuff that reminds of BJ Penn supporters backing the day.", 
        "> a) I've heard the UFC and McG have a somewhat strained relationship right now.\n\na broken clock is right twice a day", 
        "I think Conor's cardio is a bit suspect as well now based on the Diaz fight, while Edgar has endless cardio.  Yes, Conor was carrying a lot more weight and that was a factor, but I was still shocked to see him gas early in the second round.", 
        "conor gassed himself from throwing bombs. he'll be better against FWs since he doesn't have to try as hard", 
        "Edgar can push the pace on the feet and with the takedowns, which won't help McGregor at all.", 
        "Don't think Edgar's hands will be a problem for Conor. He'll hurt Frankie bad. Standing with Conor for five rounds will not end well for him and he won't keep him on the ground long enough either.", 
        "Durable too.  One thing you can say about Frankie is that it ain't easy to put him away.", 
        "Not to mention that Frankie limit breaks when you punch him in the face.", 
        "> Personally if I was the UFC, I'd throw him back in with Aldo first...two loses is difficult to re start the hype train. \n\nYou act like Aldo can't beat him.", 
        "Sorry, I probably didn't articulate my point well. It's not that I think Aldo can't beat him, it's more that if Aldo does a third fight is still marketable. Losing to Frankie is way worse than losing to Aldo, from a marketing and casual fans perspective. ", 
        "I agree on that point. If Aldo beat him it would still be bad though. \n\nI like Aldo, I wanted him to win against McG the first time, but I do think McGregor has the edge. It all depends on how smart Aldo fights. He has the skills to beat Conor, he just has to do it on his own unique strengths. I hope he didn't see the Diaz fight and think he can outbox Conor again...", 
        "McGregor will have his huge size advantage back at FW. I think he'll use his range to hit Frankie  and he'll train his takedown defense this time. Frankie's got a great chin and recovery but I don't think he can take the shots that Diaz took in that first round. ", 
        "He'll got size advantage, but what about cardio? he started to run out of gas in the second round with Nate.", 
        "Frankie typically has no problem with reach disadvantages.  ", 
        "Did he not train takedown defense? He seemed to just get hurt and panic.", 
        "I don't know... Frankie's been on the receiving side of some of the nastiest beatings I can remember and has weathered them or gotten the win.  Connor's obviously powerful, but I think we just saw what happens when the opposition is able to walk right through all that power.  Edgar absolutely has a shot.\n", 
        "Frankie does have a great chin, but he has also been in a lot of wars. His chin will give out one of these days. We've seen it happen to loads of guys. Now, I don't know if it will be in the Conor fight, but it should never be something anyone relies on to get through.", 
        "He doesn't have a very aggressive schedule, so he's had some time to rest his noggin between fights, which is one of the most important parts of recovery.  ", 
        "Not getting into wars like what he has gone through is the first step in keeping your chin. The second step would have been a ref stopping some of those fights. Like I get he came back against Gray and won which was fucking epic, but that was more damage than he should have been allowed to take. Dana always loves to talk about how not having a ten count like they do in boxing is great to helping to prevent brain trauma, but that only works if there is actual consistency in how refs stop fights.\n\nSorry for the mini rant, but there have been some fights recently that have really bugged me when it comes to the amount of damage fighters have been allowed to take. Chris vs Luke comes to mind, and there was one even more recently where a similar thing happened. ", 
        "And he's been buzzed plenty of times - being buzzed against Maynard is not the same the same as being buzzed against Conor. ", 
        "Honestly that's part of the problem. Being rocked and having the heart to push through it is impressive as fuck, but it doesn't hold up forever. The more fights like that you have the more likely it is that your chin is going to fail you.", 
        "thats my issue when people go on about someone's chin and the shots they've eaten. Just because they've eaten a shot yesterday, doesn't mean they'll be able to do that tomorrow, in fact if anything its less likely.\n\nTheir chins hold up until one day it just doesn't, it happened to Anderson, to Aldo, to Dan Henderson, to whoever. Jon Jones could get brutally KO'd his next fight, same with Frankie Edgar.", 
        "Frankie has been knocked silly before and then dragged the fight into deep waters. McGregor is big but I doubt the shots he's landing are that much harder than what Maynard was throwing before he died. If this was a few fights ago I wouldn't be so sure but I think McGregors going to have issues now that most fighters have a clear idea of his abilities. ", 
        "Did you read my post? When did I say that Frankie hasn't been in deep waters before? I was just pointing out that chins don't hold up forever. There are plenty of people with great chins who haven't been in the wars that Frankie has been in and have lost their ability to take a shot.\n\nGuys who have eaten big shots always look really impressive until they don't. It's very rare to see someone retain their ability to eat bit shots for their entire career and the longer that career is the more likely it is that your chin will start to fail.\n\n>If this was a few fights ago I wouldn't be so sure but I think McGregors going to have issues now that most fighters have a clear idea of his abilities.\n\nImpossible to say. First of all, he wasn't fighting like himself in his last fight. Does he continue loading up and head hunting? Or does he go back to mixing things up and letting the left find a home as it happens? Who knows? Depends entirely on how he takes this loss and what he takes from this fight.", 
        "Unless Frankie can suddenly gain Nate Diaz's reach, I'm not sure how much that fight will influence his game plan. If anything he should be looking at the Mendes fight.\n\nI would also argue that, while Conor might not have more raw power in his shots than Maynard did in his prime, the precision and timing of his shots make them more dangerous. Of course Maynard also had better much wrestling than Conor which arguably put him in a better position to land his shots.", 
        "Nate demonstrated the importance of interrupting Connor.  Not just counters but consistently stalling him", 
        "Frankie has spent a lifetime boxing up bigger guys.\n\nI'm not saying his best strategy would be to go in there and trade hands with Conor, but his lateral movement is hand crafted to fight longer guys. ", 
        "True but the accuracy point still rings true - Conor has a nack for landing flush regardless of how you move and he has good head movement to.", 
        "I believe Frankie was the lightweight champ, I think he will do just fine against a bigger featherweight.", 
        "Training takedown defense for a few months doesn't make you half a good a wrestler as Frankie Edgar.", 
        "It can be good enough to keep the fight mostly on his terms though", 
        "and who is he training takedown defense against, artem? gunnar? \n\n like nate said, who does he train with thats at an elite level of anything?", 
        "gunnar is an elite grappler", 
        "And Ido is elite at touch-butt.", 
        "He's training for an MMA fight not a wrestling match. All he needs to do is avoid the takedown and if he is taken down get back up. He did an alright job against Mendes on 2 weeks notice. It's not like Frankie's takedowns are unstoppable either. He couldn't keep Maynard or Bendo down. And Conor utilizes his range better than anyone that Edgar has fought.\n\nEdgar's footwork is solid but we've seen him take some pretty big shots. IMO McG is going to be able to knock him out. Only way I see Edgar winning is by gassing Conor out and taking him to a close decision like he has with so many other fighters.", 
        "He's not trying to outwrestle him, he's trying to avoid being taken down so he can knock Edgar out.", 
        "Nobody has ever knocked Edgar out.", 
        "> Nobody has ever knocked Edgar out.\n\nAnybody can be knocked out. Absence of evidence s not evidence of absence.", 
        "When did I say it was? ", 
        "When you replied that Edgar had never been knocked out in response to...\n\nah what the hell, you know very well what you implied with what you said.", 
        "That he would be difficult too knockout?", 
        "Nobody had ever even hurt Aldo, let alone knocked him out. Conor has more power than anyone at 145 and nobody else is even close. He can KO anybody in that division. ", 
        "Edgar also fought most of his career at 155 and never been finished. I'm not saying it's impossible Conor could knock him out, I'm saying it's unlikely.", 
        "No one had ever knocked out Aldo either. ", 
        "I never said anyone did. But Edgar fought at 155 for most his career.", 
        "All the guy said was Conor is going to try and knock him out. You then seemed to insinuate that Conor couldn't do that because no one has before. I was just clarifying for you that Aldo had never been KO'd until Conor came along either. ", 
        "So you took something I didn't say and tried to teach me something I already knew? Thanks. Just saying I really don't think this is a good fight for Conor.", 
        "You don't think it's a good fight for Conor because Frankie has never been knocked out and because he fought at 155 most of his career? \n\nOk. ", 
        "I love that, \"Oh, he'll just train that and get better\" as if it's Skyrim and you can just spend a few hours bashing mud-crabs to improve. Improving a skill-set in fighting takes years and years. Even BJ Penn had to train like an animal to get a fast black belt, and it still too him 2 years.", 
        "Yeah, people kill me with that. \" He is going to work on his BJJ... Then the black belts will know what's up.\"", 
        "*noooow you fucked up*", 
        "I'm torn about this comment. ", 
        "I'm pretty sure he trained for more than 3 years before his blackbelt, he just had not trained full time until then", 
        "Size, range and distance control play a big factor in wrestling as well (Jones vs DC). Conor will be long enough to control distance/cut the cage on Frankie which will help him see shots coming in. And if he does take him down, will he have the strength to keep him there? \n\nFrankie's main advantage is cardio, which will probably be accentuated because of McGregor's big cut now coming off a loss at 170. Conor's never had to go into deep water at 45, Frankie could very well take him there.", 
        "Chad had no issues taking Conor down... Neither will Frankie.", 
        "Agreed. But will he stick with it and grind out a decision or get caught up in the hype/shit talking and get into a kickboxing match? With him KOing Mendes in his last fight I see Frankie wanting to do the latter. To knock off the UFC posterboy. Except he won't, if that's his plan. If it stays standing, this might be the first time we see Frankie get KO'd.", 
        "He was also known as the \"prodigy\" because of his ability to get that skill... over two years of non stop dedicated training. \n\nThat being said, Conor has good positional BJJ and his take down defense isn't that bad.\n\nFrankie doesn't have takedowns like Chad, but on the flip side, Frankie won't blow dominant positions like Chad does. ", 
        "It's a good competitive fight with both guys bringing different things to the table. Frankie is a little slower and less powerful than Chad but is more intelligent in his approach and has great stamina. I'd give Conor the striking edge, and I'd give Frankie the edge on the ground. I think the notion that either guy has huge advantages over the other (besides power) is an outdated notion. ", 
        "I don't think he is slower.", 
        "And Frankie's better at setting takedowns up than Chad IMO. Doesn't rely as much on the double-leg blast, which is probably a little easier to position oneself against. Better boxing, more experience with bigger guys, better chin. I don't know if he wins but he's definitely got a better chance than even a full camp Chad. ", 
        "Frankie doesn't have quick blast takedowns like Chad but he is able to mix his striking and wrestling much better than Mendes.", 
        "What has Conor shown you that you can say his takedown defense \"isn't that bad\"? It has looked pretty bad to me whenever he's faced someone who has a clue about wrestling. ", 
        "Let's not forget that BJ is rich and was able to afford being trained by high level trainers full time", 
        "> Even BJ Penn had to train like an animal \n\nI think that is an understatement", 
        "Skyrim is good tho", 
        "give it to frankie\n\naldo is still young, he can wait.", 
        "As much as I like to think Aldo trains intelligently, everything we know about his gym makes me that being 29 at Nova Unaio is like being 45 at Jacksons or Tristar. ", 
        "Aldo should also be recovering his chin.  I don't think he needs to fight again to get the next shot, so the extra time on the shelf is only going to help with the longevity of his career.", 
        "My thoughts exactly, and I think if Conor doesn't take Frankie, people will always have that on him. \"Conor kept ducking Frankie\". As an Edgar fan, I'd hate to see a Conor/Aldo rematch because I think McGregor would then move up to 155 if he won again (hence, jerking Edgar around hardcore).", 
        "And as a Conor fan, I would like Conor to have fought Frankie before moving up also. A W over Frankie is a really good legacy at 145 - it would be a W over every guy in the top 5 at the peak of the division's competitiveness (crazy to think that guys like Swanson and Lamas are no longer good enough to contend - 145 is a fucking bear pit). ", 
        "Holy shit, for some reason I thought Aldo was older than Frankie.", 
        "Yeah, crazy to think if the UFC implemented the featherweight division 1 year earlier, Aldo would be the youngest champion ever.", 
        "Aldo was WEC champ before too so he was most likely the youngest person to ever be #1 in his division.", 
        "Growing up in a Brazilian ghetto makes you age a bit faster.", 
        "Being grilled on a barbecue as a child also make you age faster.", 
        "That and I wouldn't mind him playing it safe with his brain. A concussion is no joke.", 
        "Pacquiao took a year off after long time at the top and then a KO, and he came back able to take a shot. Aldo was on top for a long time, he deserves the title shot - but he's earned the time off.", 
        "That's what I am thinking i wouldn't blame him for waiting until later this year. It's not like Frankie kr Holloway havnt earned a shot either.", 
        "That was one horrific KO too. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y93eS4viOLo", 
        "They should put all 3 of em into the ring, with a ladder and the belt hanging above the octagon..\n\nFuck it, put the undertaker in there too..", 
        "Good choice. If Conor beats the undertaker he'll finally be considered legit", 
        "UFC 200 Edgar vs McGregor confirmed.\n\nI just can't see Dana saying \"So the fans really wanna see Edgar vs McGregor. But were going to give the shot to Aldo.\"", 
        "Aldo had a chance, actually 2 chances, I would dare to say, fuck him.", 
        "Really? You can't see him using this as a negotiation tactic?", 
        "If I'm Jose I'm starting a camp as soon as this fight is announced and getting ready for when Frankie inevitably breaks his hand or re-tears his groin, or gets concussed in the last 30 seconds of his last sparring session.\n\nEdit: Okay guys, I was joking. See my explanation below. In my defense, I thought the joking aspect of my comment was obvious because I included that he might be concussed in the last 30 seconds of his last sparring session, which is an ode to RDA's injury.", 
        "Frankie has never pulled out a fight.....", 
        "Both him and Gray got injured training for their third fight and it had to be postponed a few months.", 
        "This was a joke because all of Conor's opponents pull out and last time Jose wasn't in shape. I highly doubt Frankie would actually pull out.", 
        "Nate Diaz didn't pull out.", 
        "You're right, he just replaced the guy who did pull out. It would be some shit if Conor's replacements also started pulling out.", 
        "He could be saying it to see if people say they would rather Aldo. Whichever is the prevailing response will be the final decision I'm sure. ", 
        "Could just be a negotiating tactic, maybe Aldo is asking for more than they want to pay him for this fight.", 
        "Dana has no idea what's he doing. Tomorrow Conor says he wants to fight Cruz and Dana will say \"Well the people have spoken about wanting that fight.\"", 
        "> Tomorrow Conor says he wants to fight Cruz\n\nAm I the only one who wants to see this eventually?", 
        "\"Dana has no idea what he's doing.\" Nope, not an idea. He just runs this company and has no idea what he's doing. ", 
        "i wanna dispel the notion that..", 
        "To be fair, the fertittas run the company", 
        "I'm sure he didn't mean it 100% literally ", 
        "I don't know....has anyone actually seen Dana dress himself in the morning. Hmmm.....what else is the UFC hiding from us??!!", 
        "Someone must just leave out a t-shirt and jeans for him every day.", 
        "You assume Dana is completely in touch with the fans. Remember, this is a guy who was surprised no one wanted Hendricks V Lawler 3 ", 
        "I wanted Hendricks vs Lawler 3 :(\n\nApparently I'm the only Johny Hendricks fan though.", 
        "It isn't about liking or disliking Hendricks as it is about making *other* fights that make more sense with that murderer's row at the top of the Welterweight division. ", 
        "HEY, HERE'S THE ONE JOHNY HENDRICKS FAN! GET HIM!!!", 
        "\"So the fans really wanna see Edgar vs McGregor. But were going to give the shot to Siver.\"\n\n", 
        "[The fans reaction](http://i.imgur.com/fXqf0AN.gifv)", 
        "............ I like Siver.", 
        "Me too.  He's had some good fights.  ", 
        "So do I, mean spinning back kick!", 
        "does he actually still fight? I havent heard his name once since he fought conor", 
        "Yeah, he had a pretty unconvincing loss to one of the Japanese fighters not too long ago.\n\nI hope it's the kick he needs to come back and go on a tear and get his long overdue title shot.\n\nThen we see 145 become the Siver Division.\n\nSivDiv for short.", 
        "I refuse to believe there will ever be a champion named Dennis ", 
        "He last fought in June, losing a decision to Tatsuya Kawajiri. I don't think he has another fight lined up yet, unfortunately. ", 
        "Dana on ESPN: \n\n*Jose Aldo wanted this fight, Frankie Edgar wanted this fight, but in the end we decided that Cody Pfister would be our guy. We think its the right match up at this moment.\"", 
        "Give it to Frankie Dana! Aldo gets the winner at a later event.", 
        "Dana's playing with us", 
        "He said, \"the fight *that hasn't happened* that people want to see...\"\n\nDana didnt say anything about the fight that *has happened* which is mcgregor/aldo. So yes, dana could be fucking with us. In the end he will just make whatever fight he wants anyways.", 
        "Yes we do.", 
        "I am one of these fans!", 
        "but mark henry said conor doesnt deserve frankie so ... aldo it is", 
        "Give him the shot he's effing earned it. ", 
        "INVESTIGATE 3/11\n\n", 
        "The only thing worst than 9/11 is 311.", 
        "311 is the shit", 
        "eww", 
        "i dont think it would be crazy to put conor vs frankie and max vs aldo on the same card ", 
        "Would love it.", 
        "Id still prefer Aldo. But both guys deserved it. ", 
        "THIS IS IT. MAKE IT RAIN FRANKIE. ", 
        "I'd watch.\n\nI just pray they don't dedicate half a Countdown show to hyping it up, with Frankie asking \"Now who has the vagina, Mistah McGregaw?\" \n\nFrankie doesn't wear trash talk well. He's just so out of his depth; it's not something I'd wanna see.", 
        "I'm not sure I've ever actually heard Frankie talk trash.  His Twitter posts, etc. are done by his manager.  That's why shit get's said on there, but never in interviews.  ", 
        "I wonder how Conor would trash talk him. I feel like frankie is a pretty well respected fighter and he doesn't really trash talk.  It'll be interesting. ", 
        "Frankies whole 'blue collar workman nose-to-the-grindstone' image would be a great anti-dote to McGregors bluster.  His storyline, as such, is not being respected for his talents, and being a bit hard done by, which kinda flips the script on McGregor.\n\nI can imagine Conor doing a 180 to sell the fight: taking on the most dangerous wrestler after a loss on the ground, the guy who survived Aldo, the one man everyone ducks.  Build himself by building Frankie...", 
        "For the love of God, Frankie needs to make this happen.", 
        "So if Conor doesn't choose to fight Frankie,  he will accused of ducking him.  But if he does take the fight, he'll catch even more grief for beating up midgets.", 
        "Only logical answer is a triple threat match baw god!", 
        "its sad i even get excited at just seeing Dana say Frankies name\n\nplease let this fight finally happen", 
        "White went on to say, \"But not me. Fuck Frankie Edgar.\" ", 
        "What are the odds that McGregor get the instant rematch if he loses?", 
        "Good thing Dana is around or I wouldn't know what fights I'd like to see.", 
        "For UFC 200 make it happen please Dana!", 
        "I feel we're being honeydicked here", 
        "Yeah we do!!", 
        "No shit. A lot of fans want to see Conor vs. anyone.", 
        "huge aldo nuthugger here, frankie deserves the shot really. i want conor to win tho so aldo can get his belt back in a legit way. the last fight made me depressed", 
        "I thought aldo deserved his rematch for sure, but he has acted like a little bitch lately after Conor got his fight so I m cheering for Frankie to get the shot right now.", 
        "Who is less likely to pull out Aldo or Edgar?  What ever the answer is, put him in the fight.", 
        "Need RDA vs Diaz asap.", 
        "I never thought the Aldo rematch if more time off and promise it him next AND actually keep the fight to hype up to that will be bigger but Dwarf?", 
        "Damn right.  Frankie is a former lightweight champion.  If McGregor can't beat Frankie then he has no business talking about Dos Anjos. ", 
        "Hell yes we do. Even if we didn't, Edgar deserves it. ", 
        "Really?  I don't.  Much rather see him fight Aldo again.\n\nAlthough I understand Aldo needs the rest, and Frankie probably deserves a shot at the title.", 
        "I get so frustrated when everyone writes off Aldo as the \"easier\" fight.   Aldo is a fucking killer, beat everyone for 10 years.   He got caught, not dominated.   Mcgregor is a 155er who got slapped up by a 155er...  Not a true welterweight.   Aldo for the win. All day. Everyday.  \nStockton motherfucker!", 
        "Fuck yea brother! Lol", 
        "How is getting KO'd in 13 seconds better than what happened to Conor.  If he goes down from that left, we'd be saying he got caught as well.  Nate has more fights at Welterweight than Conor has at Lightweight.  You call him a 155er, even though he's always fought at featherweight.  Conor is a 5'9 Featherweight, Nate is a 6'1 Lightweight.  Dude wins the 45 title and people say he's too big and it's the only reason he wins.  He fights a dude with 3+ inches on him and no one's allowed to talk about the size difference.", 
        "You realize someone can be a better all around fighter but be an easier match up due to styles right? The logic is pretty obvious, most people think Aldo is the better fighter as a whole but Edgar stylistically presents challenges to McGregor's weaknesses aka his wrassling.", 
        "Yea.  Kinda get that...  I still say Aldo the harder fight.  Stylistically speaking.   Conor def Edgar tko round 3. Aldo def Conor KO round 2.   Heard it here folks", 
        "Its funny how perception have changed in 4 months right? Aldo is now a guy who can \"easily dominated\" by Conor. He was a warrior right up until that bell rang at the start of round 1, and now he's seen as a guaranteed win for Conor. Its crazy. ", 
        "Literally one inch left or right and it could have been a totally different story and we could be talking about how badly Aldo whooped Conor for five rounds (or now that we've seen how poor Conor's gas tank is when he doesn't win early, probably more like three).  Aldo has taken some brutal shots before and not even flinched. ", 
        "One inch to the left or right, Aldo still gets rocked.", 
        "I say Conor looses to Frankie and Aldo, Dana stains his panties.   ", 
        "This is disingenuous,  people have said Aldo was the easier fight for years.  I can remember people saying it before Poirier vs McGregor.\n\nNot many are saying Aldo is a bad fighter, or even that Edgar is a better fighter.  It just looks like Edgar is a much tougher matchup for McGregor due to his movement and wrestling.", 
        "No its not. Saying its an \"easier\" fight is not the same as saying \"Aldo can be dominated\" by Conor. No one except the most biased Conor fan was saying prior to 194 that Aldo was a pushover, which is exactly what people are saying now. If Conor doesn't fight Edgar he's basically taking the easy fight. That is bs based on how that first fight went. As I said, Aldo was seen as a legend and a ten year champ who fought and beat all comers. Now he's been reduced to a guy who is seen as a cowards choice. ", 
        "Easier matchup yes, but people werent writing him off like this. Some people now think Conor is guaranteed to beat Aldo again, thats delusional. ", 
        "I think he should fight Frankie before Aldo. A lot of people think Frankie is a harder match up for him, so I think it would be a good test with Conor coming off a loss. If he wins, it will get his hype train going again. I think having him face Aldo again after finishing him so quickly won't be as exciting to sell.\n\nBoth fighters are deserving with Frankie beating Chad so easily (even easier than Conor did with Chad having less time to prepare) and Aldo having such a long run as champion before Conor beat him. Daddy Dana can't go wrong either way.", 
        "No shit sherlock. ", 
        "Sooooooooo....is it gonna happen? Because I have no issues with this. ", 
        "You're god damn right we do! ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "haha I love that you assume Khabib will beat Ferguson. Tony will choke him out hard", 
        "Conor v. Edgar\n\nAnd pick two or three of these:\n\nLawler v. Woodley\n\nRDA v. Khabib\n\nGSP v. Nate\n\nAldo v. Holloway\n", 
        "If Khabib doesn't take much damage against Tony then it would be great to see him fighting RDA on 200.\n\nConor is a lock for 200 and I imagine Lawler will be on that card as well.\n\nedit: shit forgot about Ramadan, no Khabib on 200.", 
        "Man, counting Tony Ferguson out right off the bat huh?", 
        "khabib won't be fighting at 200 because of ramadan", 
        "is Ramadan what Tony Ferguson renamed the D'arce choke? ;)", 
        "yes, after asking where Khabib's kid was at.", 
        "wheres ur bear at?", 
        "As much as I want to see Khabib fight for the belt, if he does end up losing his next fight then Ferguson will probably fight RDA", 
        ">Robbie Lawler vs GSP/Nate Diaz \n\nWhat's with this sudden Robbie vs Nate Diaz nonsense? Are you guys aware that Nate is a lightweight?\n\nRobbie has a good 20 pounds of muscle on him.", 
        "Give it to Woodley. That poor guy has done everything he can to get a title shot, including demolishing Condit (who somehow subsequently got a title shot), getting stood up by Hendricks and agreeing to fighting Gastelum at catch-weight at the last minute (since Gastelum didn't make weight). He's got a family, next to no money from this sport, and a promise by the UFC. They should make good on that promise", 
        "> Give it to Woodley. That poor guy has done everything he can to get a title shot\n\nIs that sarcasm? Dana promised he'd make it up to Woodley but he NEVER said woodley was getting a title shot for nothing. Seeing how the WW division is one of the most stacked in the UFC, I'm sure if woodley asked for a #1 contender fight, asked to fight rory again, Khabib, wonderboy, fuck anyone in the top 5 or 6, he'd probably get it and have a chance to prove he deserves a shot. Hes just sitting back and waiting for a gold nugget to fall out of Hendricks's ass\n\nedit: I take back the \"dana never said\" part, but come on, its Dana", 
        "Stacked, and Woodley is the only logical choice. \n\n- Rory and Wonderboy are already booked.\n- Hendricks is coming off a tough loss. \n\nAnd there's your top 5... Add to that: Dana promised it to Woodley and then passed over him for a guy Woodley recently beat up.\n", 
        "I really hope Lawler gets either RDA or Condit again", 
        "RDA is not going to happen. He's a relatively new champ and has challenges in his own weight class to deal with. \n\nCondit got his shot when he didn't even deserve it. It was and still is Woodley's turn.", 
        "> He's a relatively new champ and has challenges in his own weight class to deal with\n\nthats pretty much exactly what conor did", 
        "Yea--they obviously give him special treatment. But my guess is that Conor was looking to make a permanent move because his weight cut is brutal.", 
        "yeah, I hate seeing him at 145, no person should be cutting the amount of weight he cuts, even if he does always make weight", 
        "Shouldn't of stayed on the sidelines then, Wonderboy has already passed him ranking wise. Besides, Wonderboy is coming off a 7?-win win streak. ", 
        "He has a fight", 
        "I know, that's still not a reason to give it to Woodley. Lawler vs Condit is still a beter match than Lawler vs Woodley. A split decision win against Kelvin Gastelum should not be rewarded with a title shot. Lawler arguably lost that match against Condit, so a rematch makes more sense.", 
        "he didn't really demolish Condit... he's 2-1 after loosing to Rory and hasn't fought in over a year.\n\nmost fans are not interested in seeing Woodley fight Lawler.", 
        "He was eating Condit up before the injury. In fact, the injury looked like a symptom of the damage Woodley was doing to Condit.\n\nWoodley hasn't fought for a year because White told him that his next fight is a title fight. \n\nWelterweight seems to be the home of the fan-made title fights. Condit is a great fighter and entertaining but did NOT deserve that fight. I can tell you that the hardcore fans and competitors and students of the sports DO want to see Woodley get a shot.  \n\n\n", 
        "I'd like to see woodley get a shot but it feels like a pre-determined outcome and it's a hard fight to hype up to the casuals. Woodley is in Ryan Bader territory (before the rumble fight), where he deserves the fight on paper but everyone feels like it is a long shot. Maybe throwing it on a big stacked card like this will give people a reason to watch it", 
        "I definitely don't think the outcome is pre-determined. ", 
        "I do not think that Robbie would have 20 pounds on the Nate that fought against Conor.", 
        "Robbie will fight at around 195lbs, he'll dwarf Diaz and have a truck load more power than Conor....Nate is not eating uppercuts and straight lefts from Robbie, no matter how good his chin is. ", 
        "He will be bigger but Dwarf? Really? Nate is literally way taller and longer reach, and probably only like 10 pounds lighter if he has all this time to gain mass.", 
        "The only context I can give you is this (I've said this before on here) - I trained at Tri Star for a few months and was lucky enough to train alongside Rory MacDonald...I'm 6'2\" and 185lbs, fighting at 170lbs - Rory fucking dwarfed me, I absolutely shat myself when I saw him. \n\nI don't think people realise how big some of these dudes are, I guarantee Robbie is a big guy in real life. ", 
        "Ok sure, but i'm just saying I really can't see how Nate would be dwarfed by a guy that he has to look down on.", 
        "Robbie is a big Welterweight who has fought at Middleweight.", 
        "That's all Dana speaking", 
        "DW wants to punish Nate for clowning his golden child, hence the Lawler-Nate talk.", 
        "UFC is mad that Nate beat Conor, so they want him killed against Robbie, duh..", 
        "Let's see. Nick was the last one to knock Robbie out taking into account it's been quite a while.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "They can do whatever they want. But if they're trying to be a bit more serious than the WWE, they should consider doing things right instead of messing with divisions just because the people want to see it.\n\nWW is an absolutely stacked division and Nate Diaz is somewhat of a journeyman  at LW (I love him don't get me wrong), so it really makes no sense to give him a shot at the WW title.\n\n>Also, Nate has fought, and won, at WW before.\n\nHas never beaten any opponents of passable-quality at WW.", 
        "Dana said after he was asked about Robbie vs Nate that it would make sense.", 
        "Well people are riding the Nate hypetrain right now. Plus, he said he's only looking for the biggest fights, and that's a really big fight.", 
        "I think people just want it because everyone in the top 8 of the division is either booked or coming off a loss except for Lawler and Nate is turning into the lovable scamp of the UFC", 
        "McGregor really threw out people's conception of the lower weightclasses, probably the Diaz/Silva fight had something to do with it as well, everyone's just throwing up crazy cross division match ups.\n\nI like it, though, because maybe one day we'll finally get a superfight between two champions.", 
        "> McGregor really threw out people's conception of the lower weightclasses\n\ndid he really? He went up to welterweight and got his ass kicked", 
        "Apparently he did for you, since otherwise you would stop spewing that bullshit. He fought a LW-fight where both fighters agreed not to cut. End of story.\n\nIf Nate had cut from 185 or 190 to 170 for weigh-in and then regained as much as possible to go up to his starting weight we would have had a welterweight fight.\n\nIf Nate and Conor both had 185 and areed not to cut: welterweight fight.\n\n170, no cutting: lightweight fight.", 
        "145 lb man: easy to knock out\n\n170 lb man: not so easy to knock out", 
        "Nate weighed in at 182 on fight night.  And said the only reason he was able to make the CUT was because he was sick a couple weeks before.", 
        "He was winning the fight until about 40 seconds before he lost, the revisionism people who hate McGregor, or whatever fighter, do after a fight is always amazing to see.\n\nWhat I mean is that McGregor and all his talk of moving up and down and all around has gotten people more interested in cross-division matchups, nobody would be saying RDA vs Lawler or Nate vs GSP if McGregor hadn't been banging on about moving up and then fought Nate", 
        "> He was winning the fight until about 40 seconds before he lost, the revisionism people who hate McGregor, or whatever fighter, do after a fight is always amazing to see.\n\nConor's my favorite fighter but I'm not blinded by my like for the guy, the 1st round was iffy and the 2nd was all nate", 
        "You must have been watching a different fight than everyone else then.", 
        "k", 
        "What's even the point of replying with that", 
        "ditto", 
        "Just check his history. He's a moron. I've seen him several times bashing Conor while still calling himself a fan of his in this sub since he lost to Nate. There's a reason I've tagged him as *Fake McGregor Fan*. Once he starts running out of *arguments* he starts replying with shit like this. Phony pretending all day for internet points.", 
        "I saw the first round pretty clearly Nate, but most people seem to think Conor took it. I though Conor was kicking Nates ass in the second though, until he got rocked.  I am a card carrying Conor hater, but he was legit lighting up Nate in the second.", 
        "Have him fight them both in one night. ", 
        "sooo Dana is going to schedule McGregor vs Aldo then.", 
        "The first fight while amazing in its own right was a 13-second bust in the morning.", 
        "I'd like the Frankie fight just because from a Conor storyline perspective, if Conor beats Frankie he really can say he cleared out the whole division. ", 
        "And he's right.  I had Edgar edging Bendo on their second meeting, and thought the Aldo fight was a tossup. He thumped Mendes pretty hard, he's earned the spot.", 
        "Yes, please.", 
        "It will never happen but it would be great to see a 4 man featherweight tournament with Holloway thrown in the mix.", 
        "YEEEEEESSSSSSSSS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\n\nPlease", 
        "this money in the bank rematch shit should be removed.. whats so hard about winning one fight before you go back to the title fight  if you are really that good.", 
        "nate should fight gsp at ufc 200 for that real shit \n\nconor vs edgar as co main event  \n\naldo vs pettis\n\nhafael dos anjos vs eddie Alvarez\n\n ", 
        "Cmon let Frankie bring gold back to jersey! ", 
        "Frankie should get this fight for sure. After beating Cub and Mendes he deserves it.\n\n", 
        "Well no shit", 
        "Me included", 
        "That fight makes the most sense. Frankie has been patient as hell. ", 
        "I say set the fight with Aldo and tell Frankie to train for the fight. Because everyone knows that the first guy is pulling out.", 
        "Another win over Aldo won't do too much but a win over Edgar would bring the fairweather fans back for Conor.  Edgar is definitely the fight to make.", 
        "damn what the hell is Conor's shred diet? He is so lean in this pic!", 
        "Now White figures that out? They should have fought before McGregor fought for the title. ", 
        "I prefer Frankie just because the match up is so dangerous for Conor. Conor has already beaten Aldo and stunningly too. I don't think Aldo doesn't deserve it but logically it makes more sense for Edgar who is on a winstreak, who is technically the number 1 contender, and a dangerous matchup to fight him. I think Edgar takes this though but if Conor wins I would be crazy impressed.", 
        "This is exactly what needs to happen. For both Frankie and Conor. ", 
        "Jose had his \"fight\" with CM, Lets see another fight we haven\u2019t witnessed yet", 
        "please not aldo, if he wins then its another year till anything happens for the title\n", 
        "I think Frankie beats him. Enough head movement and smarts to stay out of trouble and enough wrestling to exploit Connor's weak ground game. ", 
        "dem ears doh", 
        "The UFC needs to throw him a cupcake to promote him like they have been", 
        "\"A lot of people think fire is hot.\" -The Dana", 
        "Does no one think it's too soon for Conor to fight again? \n\nHe got rocked badly by Nate,and we've never seen anyone do that to him. I'd say 4 months between fights isn't a long time in any situation, let alone one where he was on the cusp of losing consciousness.", 
        "No shit, it's the only fight that makes sense for both of them. Aldo just got knocked the fuck out, he needs to take time off to heal his brain before he steps back in the ring. Who the hell does Frankie have to beat to get a title fight? Maybe if he takes out Rumble he can get a title fight. ", 
        "Frankie makes more sense. They can milk more money from the Aldo rematch if more time passes - it's too soon. ", 
        "Frankie will destroy Conor. I mean wrek his ass worse than Nate did. ", 
        "I am not a Conor fan at all, and I actually like Frankie quite a bit...however, style wise, I think Frankie is gonna get KO'd. He's smaller than Conor, and loves that ankle-pick running in take down. A step back left straight from Conor is gonna put him down. I'd love to see Frankie employ more traditional double and single leg TDs, like Mendes, for this fight especially.", 
        "Mcgregor vs Edgar for the title.\nAldo vs Holloway for the No. 1 contender spot. ", 
        "I don't really care to see it.", 
        "If ir just about inside the octagon, then is Aldo. But the guys promoted already 2 fights in one year and the build up would be annoying af.", 
        "I Would get excited it, no questions. But Conor vs Aldo would be cool too.", 
        "Not just a lot, but all. And I wouldn't be suprised if Conner's ppv numbers drop off and they blame it on Frankie", 
        "McGregor vs Edgar at UFC 200 then McGregor vs Aldo at Ireland (assuming Conor wins at UFC 200)", 
        "No shit. Personally I'd much rather see Frankie vs. Conor. I feel bad for Aldo though, its like Dana loves giving undeserved immediate rematches to everyone EXCEPT him.", 
        "Lets see it Dana, Aldo can get the winner", 
        "He's not wrong. One thing for sure, Frankie usually shows up for fights. Jose is less reliable, just stating a fact. I can hyped for Frankie way easier without having that reservation. ", 
        "Dana White: Fuck you, Aldo.", 
        "Frankies fights would make so many people fans. The way he fights on is inspiring", 
        "This is the fight to make because Frankie is next in line. Also Connor vs Frankie is way more marketable than Connor vs the guy he just KO'd with 1 punch.\n\nStop ducking motherfuckers.", 
        "https://i.imgur.com/Q8Fv0M9.jpg\n\nDana don't fuck with me on this one.", 
        "I want Frankie and Connor to fight then after I want Dominic Cruz to jump up and cut in front of Aldo and make him cry like a punk then I want Connor to fight Dos anjos and drop featherweight never giving Aldo a chance to redeem himself til he jumps up to lightweight to face Connor in a savage battle.", 
        "Aldo can wait. I'd rather see Edgar and Mcg slap it out.", 
        "Give it to frankie,  let aldo have some more time off and promise it him next AND actually keep the promise. Frankie will not be a easy night what so ever.  ", 
        "Who ever conor fights I am betting against him, I think that loss to Diaz fucked with his confidence.", 
        "And he's been reduced to a guy that he has no idea what's he doing.", 
        "Before the Aldo fight I was convinced Conor will be tested like he has not been tested before. Well he proved me wrong, whether it was a fluke, or not, he did what he did. I still want to believe that Edgar will be a completely new test for Conor, and do not know who would win that fight. I like Edgar, but Conor is Conor. The loss against Diaz can either knock his confidence or fuel his determination.", 
        "Your last sentence is why I want to see the rematch. Both guys are beasts and coming off of a loss. It has potential to be a classic fight", 
        "I like Conor and I like his attitude about moving belts and fighting who ever, and I want to see him and Edgar.\n\nWith saying that, this will be the start of the end for Conor; Edgar will out box him and wrestle fuck him if need be and he will lose.\n\nThen he will go against someone else, maybe a boxer and perhaps win, but when goes against, say, Chad again, he will lose.", 
        "Aldo cleaned house against Edgar.   I would prefer Aldo.  \n\nAll of the other champions got a rematch.  GSP, Silva, Edgar, all got immediate rematched.  \n", 
        "They would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English and was a 13-second bust in the most highly anticipated fight in UFC history. That's a problem. Give it to Frankie, who just knocked out the beast that is Mendes in the first period (when Mendes actually had a training camp).", 
        "It was a close decision Frankie clearly won the later rounds, it was his first fight at 145 also I believe.", 
        "I'm sure DFW even wanted to make this fight", 
        "I'm such an aldo fan, and he deserves the rematch \nI feel bad that everyone keeps telling him to promote fights but when he does its so bad, distasteful, and its been worst after the lost\n\n", 
        "I feel like Conor beats anyone at 145 90+% of the time. I want Frankie to suffer more it's entertainment. Give Aldo the next shot just for lols.", 
        "no shit\n", 
        "I think Frankie should get it too. I respect Aldo the fighter and I understand of all people, he should probably get an instant rematch but the way he lost, it's a hard sell to do it again so quickly. I'd love for Aldo to fight Holloway to see where they're both at but I have no doubt he waits for the winner if he's not selected for the title fight. ", 
        "Aldo is old news. I'd be much more interested in seeing what Edgar can do. ", 
        "Never mind all of that. Frankie DESERVES his shot and I wouldn't be happy with anyone else. ", 
        "Conor's gonna stiff  Frankie and then probably go for RDA (if he shows this time).", 
        "Doubt he gets a 155 title shot with one single defense after being finished by a lw gatekeeper on 10 days notice. Then again, it is Conor$$ and i couldnt be surprised by such matchmaking.", 
        "I think you underestimate what 1,5m ppv buys will allow you to do.", 
        "And i think you underestimate how much that number will drop after a loss.", 
        "Dream on, the fight got more mainstream mention than any of his other fights. People will be stoked for the comeback.", 
        "Casuals were atracted by his invincible schtick more than anything. That ship has sailed, many will turn around.", 
        "Doubt it.", 
        "Didn't think we'd see the emaciated Conor in a photo so soon. \n\nAin't that hard Dana, give Aldo next shot after Frankie, and Conor can then decide Chad/Max or up to 155\n\n", 
        "Shouldn't Chad and Max decide who's next by fighting each other? It's kind of weird how just because Conor hasn't wanted to defend the belt since December the whole division has kind of stood still. I get it for Frankie and Aldo, but the rest of these guys need to keep fighting to see who is waiting for the Conor/Frankie/Aldo when all that gets sorted.\n\nGranted, this stagnation could be entirely the fault of UFC matchmakers.", 
        "If Chad fights again this year his career will be over.", 
        "Aldo would go absolutely crazy if he doesn't get the rematch. Excited to see what happens", 
        "Triple threat match between Aldo, Edgar, and Conor FTW", 
        "lmao", 
        "Yes, but it seems McGregor wants a \"safe\" fight and is pushing for Aldo.", 
        "Aldo safe? Crazy how people's perception change after one fight. Aldo is a killer is all this sub was saying 6 months ago", 
        "Did you notice I put it in quotes? I don't think it's a safe fight, but McGregor and his trainer do.", 
        "Aldo vs Frankie for interim after Conor pulls out .", 
        "im curious who the conor superfan types want conor to fight next\n\nit seems most people agree that frankie is the tougher/riskier matchup for conor ", 
        "I'd rather see Frankie, but I don't think he deserves it more than Aldo. I don't see the *ducking* part either with what people are trying to convince themselves to shittalk others. 189 Mendes was *bigger* than Frankie. Mendes came off losing a close match to Aldo and mauling Lamas who was top 5 at the time. 194 was the actual match that was supposed to happen and now we are here. I must be missing the part where Conor is ducking someone.\n\nMcGregor won the belt in December and people including Edgar are throwing shit out like *ducking* and *holding the belt hostage*. It's ridiculous. I'd even say that from a 100% neutral standpoint.\n\nConor agreed to fight RDA who is as well very high pressure, decent ground game and even bigger than Frankie. In Conor's last 3 fights, 2 opponents pulled out. Frankie would've most likely already gotten his shot, if it wasn't for people pulling out.", 
        "I think most fans don't want to see their fighters given easy fights. You either like the fighter and are realistic (in which case you either hope he gets the easier opponent or you are a fan of fights and would want to see the tougher matchup) or you are overly confident in your fighter (in which case you think McGregor would smash Frankie).\n\nPersonally I like McGregor but I am in camp 1 - I think Frankie is a hell of a match up and in all likelihood would smash McGregor. But I am pumped.", 
        "Most of his fans are pushing for the Frankie fight I think. ", 
        "I feel like theres a much better chance of Frankie beating Conor and then beating Dos Anjos as opposed to Connor. ", 
        "Ehhh. im not excited about that.", 
        "Fuckin give Frankie his shot!", 
        "Another midget for Conor. ", 
        "I'm just sitting here still wanting conor vs RDA :'(", 
        "I don't want to see this fight at all.  I want to see Aldo-McGregor II.", 
        "That is insane. You don't want to see a new massive challenging test for Conor instead you wana see aldo who got destroyed in 13 seconds. ", 
        "The chances of Aldo losing like that again are 0.0% so I definitely want to see the rematch lol", 
        "Aldo was beaten before he already stepped into the cage last time, he's going to be even worse after that Ko.", 
        "Seriously, how can Conor win this fight?\n\n* Frankie can't be knocked out\n* Frankie's wrestling is the best in his division\n* Conor has nothing on his back\n* Frankie can go 5 rounds, Conor never being in 5 rounds (forget that he gassed out in the second round against Diaz) \n\nI can't understand why to give him this fight, two loses in a round will kill his hype.", 
        "I'm shocked by this. I expected Dana to protect McGregor and give him another smaller puncher who he could dominate (e.g., Aldo rematch). Frankie poses a seriously rough challenge for Connor and could absolutely destroy his payday potential.\n\nI like Frankie, he deserves it, but business wise, he's not a tenth as marketable as Connor. ", 
        "Rematch is ZzZ, Edgar is way more hype, Aldo should stick to flipping burgers", 
        "But...But...Full Camp Mendes...\n\n*sobs alone in corner..", 
        "No, Frankie Edgar wants to see Frankie edger fight Mcgeregor. ", 
        "Everyone who is not Conor or a Conor fans wants to see Frankie fight Conor. ", 
        "#YAAAS", 
        "Edgar...IS STRONGER THAN THE STORM", 
        "At this stage I want to see Aldo get it just to see the tear-filled rage-tweets that Frankie (more likely his management) come out with.", 
        "I love Frankie and he's been very vocal about being owed a shot at the title. I still like to watch him fight but Frankie did so many rematches he really burned me out being super excited to see him fight.\n\nSo even though it's a rematch the Aldo fight was only 13 seconds and it would be more entertaining to see if Aldo really has something for Conor or will he be merc'd again.", 
        "1, 2...", 
        "That means Aldo gets it", 
        "No we don't ", 
        "I honestly think Aldo is a much easier fight. Aldo has a dubious gas tank (rounds 4/5 are tough for him), is a slower fighter and is more predictable (has much worse wrestling). That and he's coming off a brutal KO.\n\nI can see Frankie being hard to hit and beating Conor in a 5-round cardio war.", 
        "I see which way the pendulum is swinging, but I'd still prefer Aldo. :/", 
        "Triple threat for the title at 200", 
        "Should be Conor vs RDA, frankie isn't enough of a challenge, Aldo would be nice now that Conor had an L he will have more confidence.", 
        "I would love to see Conor lose twice in a row. ", 
        "The Aldo fight still has much more entertaining potential imo.", 
        "I was on the Frankie train 100% but then he released that video calling McG out.\n\nKilled all my hype for the fight.", 
        "Please not Frankie. He is a boring fighter. This is confirmed by his stats...most of his wins are by decision. An exciting fighter wins mostly by KO/TKO or subs.", 
        "Frankie has won 3 of his last 5 fights by finishes.", 
        "New to MMA man? Or did you forget to put /s?", 
        "my honest opinion. look at all the stats from those who are considered the most exciting fighters and you'll see. Frankie floats like a bee and hits like a butterfly. Sure he can take you down, but then he's lost like every other wrestler.", 
        "That's wild. I mean you're entitled to your opinion, but it feels like you're only looking at his stats and not watching his actual fights. Dude's a warrior and he goes to war and he wins most of the time.\n\nNot to mention he has finished 3 of his last 4.", 
        "Just bleed ;)", 
        "Huh? Since Frankie lost to Aldo in 2013 he has had five fights with THREE finishes and two unanimous decisions. ", 
        "I thought McGregor doesn't even deserve to fight Frankie.", 
        "no deserve so aldo gets it ... thanks to edgars shady manager ali and bad choice of worda from mark henry", 
        "I would prefer Aldo. But both fights are great.", 
        "no, we don't.", 
        "BJ Penn's mouth is watering right now", 
        "What's the context? Why would BJ's mouth be watering ?", 
        "BJ likes to lick the blood on his gloves after a fight ", 
        "Wtf foreal?", 
        "BJ is a crazy motherfucker, the guy has fought LW,WW and even HW  ", 
        "Yuck.", 
        "[Dont let him near your girl when shes on the rag brah.](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/e/e0/Detroit_Red_Wings_logo.svg/1280px-Detroit_Red_Wings_logo.svg.png)", 
        "You can always count on Jake Shields for an awkward moment.", 
        "I was really hoping someone wouldve linked the pic where he was in the backround wearing three hats.", 
        "#staresintocamera", 
        "Never blinks during interviews", 
        "Needs a lesson from Uncle Snoop", 
        "Did snoopdogg do something awkward?", 
        "Nah, he's the smoothest man on the planet \n\nhttp://m.imgur.com/gallery/nPsQa20", 
        "That was almost supernatural. ", 
        "ninja level", 
        "Holy shit was he even looking", 
        "He knows you don't pull your elbow back for a fistbump, he's no goof ", 
        "Who says weed messes with your senses.", 
        "Or you know not stick his hand into an open wound lol.", 
        "Yeah exactly...I doubt Jake has any issues getting blood on himself", 
        "Yeah... Jake Shields is no stranger to blood...\n\nIt visits him once a month.\n\n^^^^^^^^^^^^^^sorry \n^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Jake", 
        "Log out.", 
        "[I stand by my joke.](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/61kdor9ymuL._UX385_.jpg)", 
        "I thought it was funny have an upvote lol", 
        "[Let me die with dignity.](https://media.giphy.com/media/ND4sEy5G4wavm/giphy.gif)", 
        "That was clever, but there's a time and a place my friend", 
        "Where I come from people who talk like that get slapped", 
        "[I live in Stockton.  Come try me.](http://gifsec.com/wp-content/uploads/GIF/2014/05/Nerds-fighting-gif.gif?gs=a)", 
        "Pretty sure that guy bathes in blood, he's pretty nuts and awesome", 
        "#NotBJProblems ", 
        "Who would want to ruin their legendary Reebok gear???? ", 
        "Yes, white is a good color to wear for MMA.", 
        "More $$ selling the shorts online. ", 
        "\"I wear red so the bad guys can't see me bleed.\" - Kenny Florian", 
        "\"That guy over there's got the right idea. He's wearing the brown shorts today!\" -Deadpool-", 
        "I dunno, maybe he just knew the blood looked badass and didn't want to ruin [this picture](http://i.imgur.com/QT5olE2.jpg).", 
        "Let's turn this into a dank meme. ", 
        "There's a reason why the Just Bleed Gods have never smiled upon Shields.\n\nHe hath forsaken them.", 
        "Jake knows where Nate has been. ", 
        "Also a missed fist bump in there.", 
        "jeeze, how many more little golden nuggets can we find from from UFC 196?", 
        "Don't blame him.", 
        "lol vegans", 
        "Nice flair", 
        "He's a vegetarian, he eats a lot of eggs. iirc, he doesn't eat any dairy products.", 
        "\"yea!!! yea!!! oh...no.... yea!!! yea!!!!\"", 
        "He doesn't like blood unlike those FUCKIN' HAWAIIANS.", 
        "I watch so much MMA that I sometimes get desensitized to the blood mask that some fighters wear after taking a lot of damage. \n\nBut two fights in recent memory that snap me out of that is Nate after Conor and Rory after Lawler.   It's pretty brutal when you think about it... this is what the *winner's* face looked like... ", 
        "The diaz brothers bleed easy, something with their tissue iirc", 
        "Didn't Joe Rogan even say that during the fight?", 
        "I believe he did", 
        "Actually I'm positive he did, I just phrased it as a question so that people don't question whether or not I've watched the fight 5 times", 
        "my heart cant handle to watch it again :(", 
        "Conor fan?", 
        "big time, I might have been more upset about the loss than conor was to be shamelessly honest", 
        "I'm a huge fan of both and was just super excited for the fight, one of the biggest upsets ever imo", 
        "idk about upsets, I was a bit worried that nate would overwhelm him", 
        "why are you getting downvoted? They have lots of scar tissue which is why they cut easily, this has been mentioned a few times already", 
        "I think they think I'm taking shots at the diaz brothers with my Mcg flair", 
        "I'm gonna need to see that in slow motion to get an accurate breakdown. The blood may have gotten in Jake's head. ", 
        "Hahaha! I love that he did that, and I love that the OP somehow saw that.", 
        "Is that Kron in the middle?", 
        "Apparently Kron and Nate are close friends", 
        "Yeah, he trains a lot with the Scrap Pack", 
        "After posting this, OP thinks: \"Ok, enough with ufc196\".", 
        "Elusive. ", 
        "That's just what it looks like when Jake tries to punch your shoulder.", 
        "I miss Jake's guard passing but then again maybe not.", 
        "Did he just hover hand Nates head?", 
        "There was blood everywhere. ", 
        "C'mon Jake, touch the blood! Don't be scared homie", 
        "I dont think he wanted to pat or rub nates cut head as well", 
        "Dude in the middle got snubbed so many times.", 
        "[Mate, we need to chat](http://d236bkdxj385sg.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/why-you-always-lying-feat.jpg)\n\nCut out Conor and fan near left of ear, apply shit black background, shit quote with basic shit font, apply some shit filters and generic mega shit black and white colourway. \n\n= Digital painting \n\n\nNahh", 
        "I painted this by hand using a photo reference. I did convert the original photo to greyscale since I didn't need any color reference. After doing this I mistook the fan behind his head as part of his ear. I am hugely flattered at all the people that think I simply applied filters to a photo. Thank you!", 
        "[.](http://d236bkdxj385sg.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/why-you-always-lying-feat.jpg)", 
        "I remember kids like OP in high school. You know, the ones who lied about dumbest shit to get attention even though it was painfully obvious that it was a lie. Stop trying to fill a void in your life with some praise from internet dwellers. Plus, you've already been exposed multiple times in here, so just hang your head and delete your account.", 
        "LMFAO digipainted, my ass.\n\nFools think they're the only ones on the internet who know how to use photoshop filters.\n\nWhy lie about this?", 
        "A bit disingenuous.  \n\n\"digital painting\" = keying photo of McGregor, convert to grayscale, conte crayon filter, blur filter chest and clean up with smudge tool?\n\nI think it'd be a lot better received/more honest calling it a photo manipulation or just a portrait of McGregor.  The source here is a photograph or screencap you didn't take and it is still the primary work.\n\nEDIT - not that there is anything wrong with any of that.  This is good content and I upvoted it, I just think the title could have been better.\n", 
        "While I certainly referenced a photo, this is entirely painted by hand on a Wacom Cintiq and not a photo manipulation. I am not taking a photo and simply applying filters. If I were I would happily admit it. Here is the [painting](http://i.imgur.com/04z21In.jpg) before adding a vignette and blur. ", 
        "Not trying to be confrontational, but dude... you're claiming you [**painted** this](http://i.imgur.com/sDj5NX6.png)?\n\nWould you mind posting the reference photo? ", 
        "I hope I'm not coming across as confrontational either. Yes, I painted this.", 
        "> Would you mind posting the reference photo?\n\n", 
        "[here](https://gyazo.com/e17f15ab0ce049ef0f3605fc21cb16d3)", 
        "[Try again next time.](http://i.imgur.com/1OLgIZh.gifv)", 
        "What a beautiful painting.", 
        "Truly amazing talent. ", 
        "Should do a time lapse video of creating a piece.    Like Shoman Art use to do for his MMA drawings.", 
        "You know he won't. You know why. Everyone does, except OP apparently.", 
        "The time lapse thing is a good suggestion. Ill do it for my next one.", 
        "I'm not buying it either.....  but if he truly did create this from scratch,  he can take this as a compliment I suppose.", 
        "> EDIT - not that there is anything wrong with any of that. \n\nThere kind of is when you call it a digital painting.", 
        "[You even painted a fan behind his left ear.](http://i.imgur.com/WDAfJyq.jpg) That's incredible attention to detail.", 
        "Ha! that is a fan isn't it. ", 
        "Exposed!!", 
        "I mistook a shape behind his head as his ear. Boy is there egg on my face.", 
        "OP you goof.", 
        "Noticed the same thing when I did a side by side. Obviously close cropped and not from a blank canvas. ", 
        "awesome job but why did you cheapen it with that stuck-in-the-mud font?", 
        "Thanks! From what I understand Helvetica is generally considered a neutral font, but to each their own. At least it's not Papyrus. ", 
        "Use Helvetica Neue next time", 
        "that is just  ..idk ", 
        "Yes, this really adds a lot to the conversation. Very deep, and well thought out response. Thanks for sharing.", 
        "The smoothness and soft focus of the overall image really cheapens everything and muddies up the image. I'd suggest going back and adding more details, maybe some highlights and lowlights. Really make the image work well with that stark blackness of the background, instead of looking like its pasted on there.\n\nThe inconsistency of the blurring of 70% of his body, compared to the beads of sweat on his forehead really makes this look like a sloppily applied photoshop filter. I would work a bit more on your brush strokes to make this more cohesive.\n\nThe typeface you chose is not only boring, but adds no feeling to the piece. The 100% white on top of the 100% black has the most contrast in the piece and that's where viewers eyes will go first. If you're going to do that, make it worth their while and be more thoughtful about the type treatment. If typography is not your thing, I'd suggest scaling the contrast back a bit, and focusing more on your painting.\n", 
        "I appreciate the feedback. You are right about the bright white font muting the contrasts in the painting. It would be more effective in a light grey that allowed the brightest points of the painting to remain the focus. As far as the smoothness is concerned, I painted this with a photoshop brush called stumpy pencil that has a rough edge to it. I attempted to avoid brush strokes that were overly smooth, but perhaps I overworked it in places. The blur below his face was to keep the focus on his expression. Admittedly, this was a quick painting (about 3 and a half hours) and I didn't feel like adding all the detail of his tattoo so that was a factor also. The blur is perhaps a bit heavy handed. Thanks again for the feedback!", 
        "guy can you paint me next? I'll pay. \n\n[Here's me](http://d236bkdxj385sg.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/why-you-always-lying-feat.jpg)", 
        "[I painted this for you, digitally.](http://i.imgur.com/4QqJDdZ.jpg)", 
        "How much?", 
        "Damn son ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/VQmEpJq.gif", 
        "fuk that's a real high quality gif", 
        "On a side note, Conor's hair looked really weird at 196 and annoyed me. He looked like chicken little.", 
        "Dada 5000 still undefeated, boys", 
        "Dude has multiple organ failure and is in the ICU =/", 
        "hahahha you're right!\n", 
        "He even beat that heart attack he had after the fight... I didnt know he went into cardiac arrest and had to be resuscitated.", 
        "hahhahah dude, you won the world. On point!", 
        "Dada brought the HAMMER and came out unscathed, if only his heart held up...", 
        "Team Dada 5000 4 life", 
        "Team Dada 5000 to the afterlife and back again, bitches!", 
        "And STIIIILL the undefeated, undisputed, undead Dada 5000!!!", 
        "Dada 5000 vs Defibrillator 3000...this time it's personal ", 
        "[This man is undefeated and Jon Jones isn't.](https://media.giphy.com/media/xxaiDO5iPO5OM/giphy.gif)", 
        "*Dada falls*\n\nBig John: \"Get up! Let's work\"", 
        "So is Chael P. Sonnen (R) ", 
        "[What you wanted](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/33FcdiFhMOY/maxresdefault.jpg)\n\n[What you got](http://img.ifcdn.com/images/0f8188ec4649678dd489c5a764723231b2ced76bd57741ff7ed0e4a3d08859f2_1.gif)\n\nIn Dada's Name, amen.", 
        "Just noticed Big John touching Dada's arm before the right hand. Checking if he's out on his feet maybe?", 
        "Think he might have been swatting his arm away from grabbing Kimbo's shorts.", 
        "Ah. I think that's what he's doing.", 
        "Kimbo doubling over in exhaustion as Dada stumbles away gets me every time.", 
        "So am I!!", 
        "Kimbo hit him so hard he literally went halfway down the octagon.", 
        "Kimbo doubling over in exhaustion as Dada stumbles away gets me every time.", 
        "I don't know if anyone has pointed it out yet... but this resembles the exageratted/drawn-out knock downs on Mike Tyson's Punch Out. ", 
        "It looked so fake but then I saw that he was medically dead for like 30 seconds following that fight. Lmao what a dosgrace.", 
        "Bellator's biggest promotion was two fat, old, homeless men falling and literally dying on eachother. What's next, they sign CM Punk? Oh wait...", 
        "At least twice the disgrace.  ", 
        "Sandman as FUCK.", 
        "Dada5000 does sound like a Punch-Out character.  Makes sense!", 
        "There's a reason he's currently /r/mma #2 P4P, an asterisk next to this defeat in the record books might be enough to push him to #1, but Phil Brooks is a close contender still also being an undefeated veteran.\n\nCM Punk vs. Dada 5000 cross-promotion fight to decide #1 P4P in the world?", 
        "i would sell my house (and punk's, since i bought it) to see this fight", 
        "You quieter!", 
        "He tested positive for Nitro Glycerine. ", 
        "GTN is the new TRT", 
        "Is that an energy drink?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Uhh paramedic here, please don't do that. Please please please do not give people medications when you have no clue what you are doing. \n\nIf the person is having a right sided myocardial infarction you have a very good chance of bottoming out the patients blood pressure and killing them. The small benefit nitro gives is nearly irrelevant compared to the possible sideffects with a contraindication. \n\nSo call 911 and wait for the professionals to arrive please. \n\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm sorry I'm not trying to be rude but your opinion is wrong. \n\n30-50% of myocardial infarction  involve the right ventricle.\n\nRight ventricular myocardial infarction is a contraindication for nitro. It will provide much more harm than good. \n\nNitro does minor systemic vasodilation and helps to minutely reduce pain. In the grand scheme of things it is one of the most useless medication in mi. Aspirin is proven to be the most effective prehospital treatment for an mi. \n\nSo yes your evidence is anecdotal and providing confirmation bias, and not good advice for the public. The best advice is call 911. \n\nSorry but you're giving out information that is potentially very dangerous. As someone with medical training, I hope you understand my concern. \n\n    - The American Heart Association's Handbook of Emergency Cardiovascular Care, Guidelines CPR-ECC 2005 states that nitroglycerin is contraindicated in RVI.\n\n\"Sublingual nitroglycerin therapy is contraindicated in patients with early myocardial infarction...\"\n\nhttp://www.rxlist.com/script/main/mobileart-rx.asp?drug=nitrostat&amp;monotype=rx-od&amp;monopage=9\n\nAgain not trying to be a dick, but often times more harm than good is done by bystanders administering medications when they have no clue what they are doing. \n\nAgain, call 911 and wait for the professionals. \n\n\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You didn't delete the post.", 
        "Aspirin and NG are given for two different reasons and work very differently. NG is given for angina (which might feel like a heart attack but isn't the same thing) NG works by allowing the blood vessels around your heart to dilate thus giving your heart more blood. Aspirin reduces the clotting factor of blood so it might help in an actual heart attack but ng certainly won't", 
        "Also TNT", 
        "My grandmother has issues reading the newspaper, not soiling herself, and with remembering names. This \"N\" pill will help?", 
        "Unfortunately not. All she needs is her grandson for all that. ", 
        "You're right. ", 
        "Been there done it. Tis the circle of life. ", 
        "As have I. I was just making jokes earlier about the commenter saying \"issues\" without being specific. Mine have passed on. ", 
        "To add to this edit, if they don't have something like that on them, Asprin is the next best thing.  Same procedure, under the tongue and call 911.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Not at all. Asprin is not formulated for sublingual. It needs to be chewed.", 
        "Actually you need to chew aspirin, if they can't chew and swallow never put them in their mouth.", 
        "Chew aspirin? I've never chewed a pill in my life.", 
        "You obviously never did ecstasy ", 
        "Plenty of times, never chewed it. ", 
        "Who the fuck chews their x pills", 
        "They kick in faster and more intense, but don't last as long", 
        "No kidding. ", 
        "325 mg of chewable aspirin, often baby aspirin, is the advised dose in a suspect acute mi. \n\n", 
        "Interest my directive is 160-162mg po", 
        "Every day's a school day!", 
        "81mg is a baby aspirin dose. ", 
        "Correct, that is the dose of one chewable baby aspirin. \n\nThe recommended dose for a suspected acute mi, at least in my protocols(and most national guidelines) is for 325mg of baby aspirin po. \n\nSo we give 4, 81 mg tablets of baby aspirin resulting in a dose of 324mg. Just about the recommended dose. ", 
        "well that might change if you're having a heart attack someday and want to help your body continue to live", 
        "That's what I was about to say lol, he's never had a heart attack", 
        "But it's icky.", 
        "It's so it gets into your blood stream as fast as possible. Your body will absorb it faster as will your mouth.", 
        "but you can shove it up their ass", 
        "Fact.. You can", 
        "ITT: Reddit certified medical authorities who'll contradict each other and leave you more confused than you were in the first place.", 
        "They need to be chewed. ", 
        "Haha well you NEVER put aspirin under the tongue, it's not taken sublingual, nitro tablets are, but Aspirin needs to be swallowed or chewed, and in the case of a heart attack, chewed.", 
        "Momma bird that shit.", 
        "100% that works ", 
        "If I ever find an old person having issues I'm getting his wallet first. Old people are the only ones that still carry cash!", 
        "About ten years ago my grandfather unexpectedly wound up in the hospital with a heart issue.  Grandma starts blowing up my phone.  Finally take the call and she is insisting I go to the hospital ASAP for his personal belongings.  I'm blowing her off \"yeah, yeah,yeah\".  I'll get there when I get there.  She keeps pressing me.  Fine.  Whatever.  I write it up to her being a bit odd, and head over there.  When I get there he has his stuff in a plastic bag on a bedside table.  He pulls out his wallet and hands me $5800.  ", 
        "People who lived through the depression and their children tend to have a strong distrust of banks.", 
        "While you aren't wrong this was just his \"walking around\" day to day wallet money lol.  I ended up talking to him about it.  ", 
        "Yeah, I was just generalizing but you get the picture. My grandmother used to keep a shitload of money in her house.\n\nBut it does feel cool when you're rolling around with a wad of cash. Big Time Willie!", 
        "And if you see the very rare melliniual with cash, there is a 99.99% chance they sell weed.", 
        "I carry cash because I take out my spending money for the fortnight after pay day. TIL people assume I'm a drug dealer.", 
        "Why the hell would anyone under 40 use cash over a visa, you're taking such an unnecessary risk. Does crime not exist in Britain? I honestly don't know anyone in their 20s who uses cash for anything other than buying or selling drugs. But congrats you are the .001%, mate!", 
        "IDK why you have me pegged as being British.\n\nIt's a pain to log into my bank account all the time to view my balance and avoid over spending. So I just take out my food money every two weeks, so I can always see roughly how much I have.\n\nIf I did get robbed, they'd get ~200 USD if they were lucky. Never happened.", 
        "Using a fortnight instead of two weeks, I just assumed you were cousins with William and Kate. But for me logging into my account everyday takes 15 seconds with the app. 15 seconds a day is less time than it would take me to drive to the bank or supermarket to get cash even once. I'm also the exact opposite because with cash, I'm less responsible because it's not like I'm recounting cash after every purchase with my banks app I know exactly what I've spent at the end of everyday. And the coins that result from using cash, in general are a pain in my ass.", 
        "It's also much easier for your brain to swipe the card. I've seen quite a few recommendations to use cash when possible because it makes you really consider every purchase. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "That makes sense but for me, I'm way more responsible with my visa. Cash is just to easy to spend, because I'm not counting it as I go usually. And speaking of getting drunk, if I mis place my visa my bank will replace it for a $1 and the drivers license is $10 so it's just safer for me. ", 
        "This made me laugh. \" You kids with your fancy bank cards.\"", 
        "TIL...", 
        "It widens the blood vessels in hopes that it will allow some blood to pass through whichever one ends up blocked. It's given a lot for heart patients", 
        "The only challeneger I can see beating DADA is his heart. ", 
        "clearly not", 
        "his heart will fail him", 
        "Dada is Stanly from the Office. ", 
        "Or a Carls Jr 6 dollar burger ", 
        "Or his potassium levels", 
        "I don't even think his heart beats bro.", 
        "Dada's only challenger's are cheeseburgers, fried chicken and orange soda.", 
        "dass rayciss", 
        "triggered.\n\n/Rogan", 
        "Lucrative. ", 
        "Uhh...you got anymore of that fried chicken and orange soda? ", 
        "That's racist. /s", 
        "A Man's Gotta Eat.", 
        "Bellator 155: Dada vs Beetus", 
        "\"Dada vs a Fetus.\"", 
        "In order for his heart to beat him, it has to beat in his chest, and for a brief moment in time it wasn't even doing that. Dada just can't be beat. ", 
        "How can Dada be real if hearts aren't real", 
        "no", 
        "Dada is kill", 
        "Dada is death", 
        "DADA defeats his heart via flash knockout ?", 
        "The heart only knows violence, it will attack again one day. The only way to beat a heart is to attack it first. ", 
        "Holy shit dude. That was deep.", 
        "What can I say, Dada inspires me. ", 
        "Yea... inspire me not to get to 300 pounds lol", 
        "Don't you ever fuckin disrespect Dada.", 
        "Dada is smart, Dada is loyal.", 
        "Dada bless", 
        "I hope Kimbo Slice kept the receipt, cos his performance certainly wasn't enhanced.", 
        "\ud83d\ude02", 
        "Wait! Zoom in on Kimbo's cardio. You see that? What's that there... in the reflection? Can you enhance that for me?", 
        "It's... Theres a bunch of cheeseburgers, and 5 hour energy drinks, is this normal? We need to enhance further.", 
        "E N H A N C E", 
        "Oh my god it appears all the cheeseburgers were drenched in pure lard before consumption.", 
        "It's Randy Bobandy", 
        "This muthafucka is definitely on the cheeseburgers, gnomesayin.", 
        "Imagine him without it. LIKE JUST TRY AND IMAGINE IT.", 
        "His heart would probably fail", 
        "He would have been in the Hospital for over a week...", 
        "All you have to do see the gif of the round end between him and Houston Alexander with both men with their hands on their knees gasping for breath.", 
        "Dada 5000 is the last American hero. An inspiration that nearly died in his fight against steroids.", 
        "Dada vs Fedor UFC 200 make it happen Joe Silva", 
        "I know you're joking but he is still pretty inspirational. A nobody who came from poverty rises to national fame and fights on one of the most watched MMA events and history. Literally  fought until his heart stopped trying to do what he loved. ", 
        "> one of the most watched MMA events and history\n\nOnly about 2 mill saw it.", 
        "Dude, not even 2 million people watched. The whole thing was a farce. ", 
        "One of the most watched mma events lol", 
        "Found Dada's papa", 
        "Papa 6000. ", 
        "Wish he trained though.  What a waste.", 
        "or he could have trained a bit and not been in such horrible shape, that would be more inspirational than just showing up and falling over from exhaustion", 
        "You don't find his lack of effort is something to aspire to?", 
        "That's not the American way", 
        "\"FUCK IT!!! WE'LL DO IT LIVE\" ", 
        "Lmao", 
        "This was SO CLOSE to being the fight where someone on PEDs killed their opponent and inevitably tried for murder", 
        "Damn didn't even think of that. Good point.", 
        "\"Baby nuts\"", 
        "I knew Kimbo had to be on something after he landed that brutal KO punch at the end.", 
        "The deadliest move in marshal arts. The shoulder graze. ", 
        "It seemed like it sent him flying!", 
        "149 will go down as the greatest Mixed Martial Arts event in history, nothing can top this. And we, the chosen few, were blessed to watch it all in real time. 20 years from now they'll ask, where were you when Kimbo and DADA settled their beef? And I'll say, streaming it illegally off my laptop. DADA bless.", 
        "The dada  bless thing is meta in a way you could write a thesis about. ", 
        "> And I'll say, streaming it illegally off my laptop.\n\nHaha, I was just thinking that right before I read it, wasn't expecting that to be what you actually said. I don't even think it's possible to watch Bellator in my country on tv, though", 
        "It was a free event and you still streamed it illegally? You are a crazy muthafucka", 
        "I live in Australia ", 
        "Pretty much had to if you were outside the usa", 
        "probably doesn't have TV at all, so no Spike\n\nSource: same here", 
        "Is a TV the old thing that's the button you click to save files?", 
        "Literally me. Streamed it with my slow ass internet connection. All the fights were lagging big time and would piss me off when the crowd would react only for my screen to be frozen up. ", 
        "I'm not even going to bother watching highlights from UFC 200. 149 was so overwhelmingly amazing that it has made every other mma event, future and past, completely irrelevant. ", 
        "Wait til you see Dan Severn vs tank abbot! 107 years between them, and the same night, Roy Jones Jr will murder a fan.", 
        "Forget Nate Diaz, Kimbo is that real money fight", 
        "Kimbo x Conor would be pretty epic.", 
        "Kimbo by submission in the 2nd", 
        "Not only does he move the needle, he injects them as well.", 
        "> where were you when Kimbo and DADA settled their beef?\n\nI don't think there's enough beef in the world to settle those two guys.", 
        "Oh gods... my sides... \n\nSome of the comments in this thread. I... I... *waggles off and collapses like a sack of potatoes* ", 
        "And everybody goes FUCKING APESHIT!", 
        "*stays down* ", 
        "Makes it even more embarrassing. ", 
        "No say on whether its PED or recreational.", 
        "You're on steroids", 
        "Bahleewn animals.", 
        "Ken is surely on TRT since he's used a lot of roids in the past, he actually probably needs it medically now to have normal test levels.", 
        "Oh, I'm sure he's on something, but it doesn't say what from what I saw.  Nothing for Kimbo either", 
        "Can you imagine if Kimbo tested positive for EPO", 
        "Muh endurance", 
        "ExtraPepperoniOntop", 
        "Why even test Ken Shamrock?  That's like traveling to the sun to find out if it's hot.", 
        "The only surprising thing is Royce didn't fail too.", 
        "Have those tests came back yet?", 
        "I'd assume if Ken's and Kimbo's came back than Royce's did too, but ellifino.", 
        "Oh FML. I thought this is from the Kimbo/Shamrock fight. My b", 
        "I'm not surprised, Rich Piana helped him with his cycle. Right babe?", 
        "Wait, are you trying to say that Rich Piana is on steroids? He's my favorite natural body builder.", 
        "Rich Piano is my favorite musical instrument.", 
        "Yep", 
        "Fuck man, if he was on the juice he should get a refund. ", 
        "Well, he has popped for Nandrolone before.", 
        "Does that cause dad bod? ;)", 
        "I think it just proves that any fool can waste good drugs.", 
        "I wouldn't believe that original comment...", 
        "I feel like I've seen the same comment like... Right after I clicked on this post. Hmmm", 
        "Yeah, that user has a history of dishonesty, stalking, and spamming, so it doesn't surprise me.", 
        "Ayy I am surprised motherfuckers", 
        "Dont you mean \"I am not Surprised motherfudgers?\"", 
        "Kanyestopssmiling.gif", 
        "*Typically, the maximum discipline for combatants who fail drug tests in Texas is a 90-day suspension and $5,000 fine*\n\nFuckin' Texas", 
        "are you serious? this is nothing", 
        "So basically you can book and start training for your next fight right away. LOL.", 
        "That's it?  Holy shit.  Makes you wonder why they always say \"Don't mess with Texas,\" that's not even a punishment considering how much money they made to fight, and geriatric MMA fighters only fight once a year.", 
        ">Makes you wonder why they always say \"Don't mess with Texas,\" \n\nThat's an anti littering slogan. You can be fined\u00a0up to $500 for trash less than or equal to five pounds or five gallons. Repeat the offense, and you could face a\u00a0fine\u00a0of up to $2,000 and 180 days in jail.\n\n", 
        "thank you fellow houstonite", 
        "Ah, that's the origin?  Cool.  It gets repeated constantly in different context, though.", 
        "A certain former US President is in part to blame for that.", 
        "Fuckin George Washington.", 
        "Death, taxes, and Ken Shamrock juicing.", 
        "you made me laugh congrats. ", 
        "Wonderful", 
        "So this means Dada and Royce are in trouble for not taking drugs right?", 
        "If kimbos on roids, doesn't it mean he likely has baby nuts?", 
        "myth", 
        "I mean, it's not a myth. If you're on a cycle, or just finished a cycle, your balls will be pretty shriveled and tucked inside you. \n\nThe myth is when people think steroids = small penis.", 
        "ahh well cool. if i ever took em i guess I'd be good. I'd rather have hgh, i hear it makes your dick bigger.", 
        "HGH isn't very effective by itself. It's very effective when combined with steroids though. ", 
        "There's plenty of counters for that. HCG will pump your nuts right back into adulthood after about 15 minutes. and if you take it periodically while juicing nothing happens.", 
        "Asking the important questions, I like it", 
        "Hahahahaha ", 
        "HUEHUEHUEHUEHUEHUE", 
        "Fun fact. In Portuguese this is pronounced \"HwahHwahHwah\"", 
        "axaxaxaxaxaxaxx )))))))", 
        "i made a real emoji face when i read the headline, thats hilarious.", 
        "Ahahahahahahahahhahaha", 
        "hehehehehehehehe", 
        "Lolololololololololol", 
        "jajajajajajaja", 
        "Kekekekekekeke", 
        "555555555555555555", 
        "Dillashaw?", 
        "\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d\ud83d\udc0d", 
        "SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS", 
        "huehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehuehue", 
        "To fail a drug test in Texas is quite an achievement", 
        "Texas has a crazy low Marijuana metabolite threshold. Someone gets popped for weed there damn near every event. Off the top of my head,  Jessica Eye,  and Francisco Trevino in his Sage Northcutt fight. ", 
        "> Typically, the maximum discipline for combatants who fail drug tests in Texas is a 90-day suspension and $5,000 fine. \n\nThe *maximum*.  Sheesh, what a joke. ", 
        "That's hilariously sad. Essentially just a symbolic slap so they can say they punish.", 
        "I mean, if that's the max punishment, why wouldn't they roid?\n\nHell, why not take ALL the roids in that case?", 
        "Texas is the home for freakshow fight. Ken and Kimbo will be fighting under the Texas athletic commission by the end of the year I suspect", 
        "More than Japan? Just think about some of the train wrecks we've seen in Japan. \n\nI mean, Sapp is practically a centaur with all the horse running through his veins. ", 
        "I think you have to blow the blunt smoke in a commissioners face to fail there", 
        "They are more strict on weed than any other state commission. ", 
        "Not Houston. Just essentially decriminalized it this year. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "My brother was caught with 2 lbs. Got probation so I would say they are easing up on it.", 
        "That's neat, but we are talking about an athletic commission not the state government. Thanks for playing though. ", 
        "Actually we were talking about decriminalization which has nothing to do with athletic commissions. Reading comprehension is difficult, so I will give you a pass. ", 
        "Of all the examples he could have listed, he picks the one thing they are more strict on. . .", 
        "Ayyy I'm not surprised, motherfuckers. ", 
        "I'm shocked all four didn't get popped.", 
        "Ken's balls got popped tho", 
        "I'm more surprised Dada and Royce passed tbh.", 
        "Why would DADA get popped? He didn't even train.", 
        "Yeah after that world championship-level performance I'm shocked Dada wasn't on something.", 
        "Truly surprising.", 
        "Last time he popped he was litterally off the charts of the machine measuring. In the meantime he has taken so much gear that his body has become one with the steroids.", 
        "Royce passed because they don't test for asshole.", 
        "Someone's salty.", 
        "Yes, Royce is.  All the time.", 
        "Can confirm: I watched this Yeol Romero fight once...", 
        "Royce is asshole, why Ken hate? ", 
        "Because Royce is bastard man!", 
        "Not as bad as silly baldy man Ginobili.  Macheen not scared.", 
        "I remember now! I did write that one. ", 
        "Dada retains his undefeated streak, technically. What a ridiculous event.", 
        "that's not how it works is it?", 
        "Yes it is. Look at Silva vs Nick Diaz. The fight will retroactively be turned into a No Contest, Dada's record is 2-0-0 (1 NC).\n\nNote that the result of the Shamrock vs Gracie fight will not be changed, since only the loser of the fight failed his drug test.", 
        "Dada goes up to 3-0-0 (1 NC) after taking a decision against Death itself.\n\nI'm hoping they open a super heavyweight division so I can see Dada v Taxes in 2017.", 
        "What a shit show.", 
        "*The show must go on!*", 
        "Sure, just with new players.", 
        "u/dada5000ismyhero", 
        "Can't believe I never considered this. I was an idiot for thinking DADA could lose fairly.", 
        "You're unworthy of your name, traitor!", 
        "don't worry. DADA will get his revenge once Kimbo gets off the steroids!", 
        "I heard he's training hard twice a day.  Once at McDonalds and once at KFC.", 
        "\"Royce Gracie's classless finish, blah, blah, blah.\"\n\nLooks like he wasn't the only classless asshole that night, eh Ken?", 
        "And you honestly think Royce wasn't on anything? If 90% of UFC fighters are on something, then ALL of Bellator is.", 
        "Eh, to be fair, Royce gets flack not just for that night but for things he has done throughout his career. He has tested positive, insisted on \"Gracie Rules\", held submissions too long, etc. ", 
        "I mean at this point ken is starting to look old enough to be my grandpa. I think for him to even be able to make it up the stairs in there he needed to be juiced to his gills. I don't know how Royce didn't fail. ", 
        "Doesn't state if it was anabolic, maybe Ken likes da herb", 
        "Meh, Royce is still worse.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Or in this case a win", 
        "Why is everybody saying that? Context?", 
        "So salty.", 
        "i hope theyre done fighting. They both looked like they needed walkers in there ", 
        "Just waut. Bellator 1000, Ken and shamrock face off at bingo in the shady oaks retirement home. Ken gets popped for steroids, Royce rigs the ball machine thing.", 
        "Could he be the first fighter to break their hip in a sanctioned fight? ", 
        "So close to a headline reading 'Juiced-Up Kimbo Kills Dada in Cage'", 
        "Just imagine what that would have done to the sport...", 
        "Bellator 149 truly is the gift that keeps on giving.", 
        "Oh man thats pretty pathetic", 
        "Doesn't say if it's PED tho.", 
        "Slice probably got popped for weed. Shamrock probably roids. ", 
        "They both popped for the same thing according to the article.", 
        "Nah, I'd say they were both done for roids.", 
        "This kind of puts a major damper on Shamrock's open letter to Royce, am I right? He makes an appeal to Gracie's competitive nature, basically saying the playing field wasn't level after the nut-shot. And now it comes out that he was intentionally cheating against Gracie.\n\nLet's be honest with ourselves, though. Who in their right minds actually believes that Shamrock has ever fought without the help of steroids? Even once? This announcement isn't anything earth-shattering. It just confirms everyone's long-held suspicions that Shamrock is a total fraud.", 
        "Most definitely. I'm actually surprised Gracie didn't pop.", 
        "Why?...", 
        "Because he's a cheating scumbag and he's popped before.", 
        "Lmao nice logic ", 
        "Also, he's old, and old guys hangin on tend to pop.", 
        "Ken is a cheating scumbag, popped before *and* popped now.", 
        "I used to do drugs.  I still do drugs.  But I used to, too.\n\n/Kenny Florian", 
        "Winning the fight by kneeing somebody in the nuts isn't suddenly right because the guy used steroids... Should already be a no contest.", 
        "Wait he really got kneed in the nuts? I've been away a little while. Was this confirmed?", 
        "Yes, pretty blatantly", 
        "wow. that really sucks. the replay i saw didn't show it at all but ok. damn. they killed kenny!", 
        "fuck that. it was the judge's fault not royce's.\n\nsteroids on the other hand, completely on shamrock's", 
        "Every single one of those Zangief looking motherfuckers from the early UFC days was juicing. But yeah, Ken's letter looks even more ridiculous now. What a shitshow.", 
        "I think it's safe to say Kimbo didn't get busted for EPO.", 
        "That was them on drugs?", 
        "Acid is a drug", 
        "Break out the bananas and eggs it's time for Dada to get his rematch!!", 
        "Least surprising headline ever", 
        "It actually really did surprise me.... that they even did drug testing. ", 
        "I couldn't be happier.", 
        "Norandrosterone and noretiocholanolone are metabolites of Nandrolone, common known as Deca-Durabolin or just Deca. It increases bone density, red blood cell count, and most importantly muscle growth. Stanozolol is also known as Winstrol, it is used usually when cutting weight. It is great as preserving muscle and increasing your strength and speed without adding mass. These are both of the most common steroids athletes test positive for generally and are a common combination since Stanozolol tends to dry out the joints and Nandrolone lubricates them. Especially in fighting and grappling.\n\n**tldr: Stanozolol helps you keep your muscle while losing weight but it dries your joints. The others are just what Nandrolone breaks down into. Nandrolone lubricates the joints and builds muscles.**", 
        "They're also pretty good performance enhancers and make you a lot stronger ", 
        "Wut?! They tested them? Wtf? Ken/Kimbo on PED's was the most obvious thing in the world.", 
        "I think they failed the mandatory pre-fight urine test that everyone takes. If they got randomly tested then all 4 of them prolly would've failed for something ", 
        "The 50 year old man got popped? ya dont say. Long live the freakshow ", 
        "The fuck steroid was Kimbo on? NyQuil?", 
        "TIL gravy is now considered a PED and banned from use in competition. Kimbo getting popped could stop PED use faster than across the board testing. Who the Fuck is going to spend $ on whatever the Fuck he took.", 
        "Probably why it took so long for Shamrock to noticed he got kicked in his tiny nuts", 
        "I think it really speaks to the pinpoint accuracy and precision of Gracie's Knee strikes.", 
        "So I guess it's safe to say the Missouri athletic commission definitely missed something when they tested Kimbo and Shamrock in their last fight", 
        "The greatest event in the history of mma keeps getting better", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers ", 
        "I'm not surprised, motherfuckers.", 
        "The meta, it keeps growing!", 
        "They should let these freakshow guys take whatever they want. They should require it. \n\nhttp://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/update-all-drug-olympics/n9691", 
        "Just put everyone in a Bellator Kumite with no rules", 
        "Why the fuck is Bellator bothering to test for fights like this....?", 
        "All I gotta is I ain't surprised motherfuckers", 
        "Just out of interest, if someone had bet on Dada - is that bet valid still? After being declared a loss?", 
        "Bets pay out based on official decision at the time of the fight. Any retroactive changes aren't considered. ", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers", 
        "Yeah, I think this doesn't exactly shake the foundations of MMA to it's core.", 
        "If Kimbo popped for AAS then that is a TERRIBLE promotion for Steroids because he had absolutely no conditioning whatsoever. lol", 
        "Unless he popped for epo or that stuff Sharapova cheated with I wouldn't expect him to have any better cardio. ", 
        "Honestly, as shitty as he fought..for his sake I hope it was Tren. lulz", 
        "well, steroids & weightlifting alone don't give you cardio.. often the opposite.", 
        "The crazy thing is to imagine how that fight would've if they were clean.", 
        "more cardio probably", 
        "BRICK HOUSE", 
        "For men that age it was probably something they were taking for the erectile dysfunctions.", 
        "Is Viagra, is normal.", 
        "::Slow Clap::", 
        "I love everything about this", 
        "you cant make this shit up", 
        "I smell a rematch!!", 
        "Valium and Ambien for Kimbo? ", 
        "Nah, Weed", 
        "John McCarthy better not pop next, otherwise this card was worthless.", 
        "There were drug tests??", 
        "What can be said? Bahahahaha", 
        "Well shit... Just when their careers were about to really take off....", 
        "Like Victor Conte said,  these aren't even drug tests. They're intelligence tests.", 
        "especially in texas, they typically only test day of", 
        "Doesn't matter, Kens legacy has already been destroyed ", 
        "I knew something was up when Dada 5000 had to fight so hard his heart exploded.", 
        "Kimbo truly has evolved.", 
        "havent read it yet, but im assuming based on his performance it wasnt EPO", 
        "Bellator drug tests people? REALLY? \n\n\nSorry, Wanderlei.", 
        "I demand a second opinion", 
        "I know it's gas to make jokes, but don't any of you pretend you wouldn't watch the shit out of Kimbo/DADA 5000: Vengeance ", 
        "I'm not surprised mother fuckers", 
        "LMFAO", 
        "great reminder i lost 50 bucks on this shit.", 
        "Kimbo was juicing and still performed that shittily?! Wow.", 
        "I think it is the scariest part", 
        "Don't tell me it was EPO.", 
        "Well we know it wasn't epo", 
        "Kimbo should have used more EPO", 
        "https://youtu.be/3HcLRoQn3nU", 
        "To fail a drug test with that Texas commission is pretty impressive!", 
        "They also failed their last fights. Especially Kimbo. ", 
        "And in other news, the Diaz brothers enjoy a blunt or two. ", 
        "Kimbo Slice and Ken Shamrock? What did they test positive for? Metamucil? BenGay? Embalming fluid?  ", 
        "Ensure.", 
        "Ayy im not surprised muthafuckas ", 
        "I SWEAR TO GOD IF THEY HAD PEDS IN EM IM DONE", 
        "your body has to be 30% steroids to be caught in texas", 
        "That can't be right.... That sounds low", 
        "> Typically, the maximum discipline for combatants who fail drug tests in Texas is a 90-day suspension and $5,000 fine.\n\nDamn, how not to love Texas.  ", 
        "3 months for peds?", 
        "Will other athletic commissions adopt/honor this?", 
        "they failed a lot more than that", 
        "This is sad, their should have been no drug testing for this fight. And it makes you think... kimbo tested positive, dada dident. What if dada would have sufferd further injury then kimbo flagged. The dude almost died in their", 
        "\"dident\"\n\n:D", 
        "You missed 'their' - 2x", 
        "Wasn't trying to point out mistakes, I just found \"dident\" funny. ", 
        "I dident. ", 
        "Thanks for fixing that so everyone would be able too read my post", 
        "I like you.", 
        "Thank you my friend", 
        "Yeah, it's actually just spelled \"didn't\" although it's pronounced like dident. \n\nWhen you used \"their,\" it should have been \"there.\" Their is possessive, \"their money\" \"their kids\" etc. There is for location or occurrence, like \"he went over there\" or \"there never should have been testing\" etc.\n\nIf it helps, you can think that \"their\" will always be followed by a noun (to denote what is being possessed) and thus can never be the last word in a sentence. \n\n\"There\" can end sentences. \n\nA somewhat confusing exception though is the word \"their**s**\" which *can* end a sentence. \"That money is theirs.\" Theirs is a possessive pronoun so it's used in slightly different ways. Their is a possessive adjective. Here's a little chart as a refresher:\n\nhttp://image.slidesharecdn.com/pronouns-100517111517-phpapp01/95/personal-pronouns-possessive-pronouns-and-possessive-adjectives-7-728.jpg?cb=1274095373\n\n\"Too\" is only used to mean \"also\" or \"excessively.\" \"I want to go too!\" Or \"There are too many people here.\"\n\nYou can also test whether you're using too correctly by reading the sentence with too stressed. Like \"Omg, I know him *too*!\" sounds okay, but \"I really want *to* eat\" doesn't sound quite right. \n\n\"To\" is used before or after verbs. Eg \"He fights to win\" or before infinitve verbs \"He wants to fight.\"\n\nhere's a little helpful article on this:\n\nhttp://m.wikihow.com/Use-\"Too\"-and-\"To\"-Correctly\n\nYour English is very good. Grammar is the hardest part of a language! But Portuguese grammar is harder than English, so I know you're doing just fine. Besides, native English speakers make these two mistakes a lot too actually. ", 
        "He did die, but was revived.", 
        "People have talked about filing civil suits against steroid users for endangering their lives. Don't think anyone has gone ahead with it.", 
        "I like Scott Croker and what he's done for the sport, but Bellator 149 was nothing but a black eye for the legitimacy of mma. ", 
        "\"I'm not surprised motherfuckers\" - K-Flo from the Block", 
        "Are you fucking kidding me? Kimbo is that bad when he juices? There are guys that I know who've been training at my gym for a year that would smack him around. ", 
        "HAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHA..............HAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHA.......Fuck this fight was such a joke.", 
        "I heard steroids give you baby nuts.", 
        "your all on steroids\n", 
        "So what? If that's the performance they give  while on PEDs then they should be allowed to shoot HGH between rounds on medical grounds. ", 
        "Color me shocked", 
        "They got their Viagra from the same place as Anderson apparently.", 
        "Holy shit, as if that 'event' couldn't get more embarrassing for MMA. ", 
        "The gift that keeps on giving.", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers", 
        "Lol wut", 
        "what a shit show", 
        "Amazing.", 
        "Why did Kimbo think he needed to juice to beat Dada? The only thing you need to beat Dada 5000 is about an hour of drilling armbars from the mount and you're good.", 
        "Look at the guy.... Kimbo is on a non stop cycle.  \n   \nPeople don't just juice for competitive reasons.  ", 
        "Oh good lord.", 
        "lmao, good grief.. Time for Shamrock to hang it up.. ", 
        "Bahahaha as if anyone is surprised by this or gives a fuck.", 
        "At least Ken learned that steroids can't beat a knee to the nuts.", 
        "Hilarious, especially given Shamrocks appeal.", 
        "AHAHHA what?! youre gonna make these fights and then test them for drugs? Come on bellator, embrace what you're meant to be. ", 
        "Man I am Reddit way too much. Am I the only one who saw the (TDLR) in the article and scrolled to the bottom of the article to see if there was a TL;DR shorter explanation ", 
        "look at that they are on stero... i will see myself out ", 
        "Well this is shocking.", 
        "You dont say ", 
        "Could Diaz pop for weed?", 
        "The Texas commission had to be fully aware that this was going to happen before testing them.", 
        "Possibly one of the worst advertisements for the postive effects of steroid use in sports.", 
        "What do norandrosterone, noretiocholanolone and stanozolol do to help a fighter?", 
        "Norandrosterone and noretiocholanolone are metabolites of Nandrolone, common known as Deca-Durabolin or just Deca. It increases bone density, red blood cell count, and most importantly muscle growth. Stanozolol is also known as Winstrol, it is used usually when cutting weight. It is great as preserving muscle and increasing your strength and speed without adding mass. These are both of the most common steroids athletes test positive for generally and are a common combination since Stanozolol tends to dry out the joints and Nandrolone lubricates them. Especially in fighting and grappling.\n\n\n**tldr: Stanozolol helps you keep your muscle while losing weight but it dries your joints. The others are just what Nandrolone breaks down into. Nandrolone lubricates the joints and builds muscles.** ", 
        "Thanks.", 
        "I can't wait to hear Luke Thomas rant about this. I hope this is the final nail in Bellator's freak show chapter.", 
        "I ain't even mad.", 
        "Jesus. I grew up renting UFC 1-10 or so from Blockbuster. Ken was my favorite fighter from the old school guys. I still like him. Hang the gloves up Ken. Be a commentator or something. ", 
        "If Dada would have died, this would be really really bad for slice.", 
        "I'm not surprised, motherfuckers....", 
        "Dada wins by heart attack?", 
        "I wonder if stuff like this honestly bothers Scott Coker or if he doesn't care", 
        "Consequences", 
        "Lmfao.", 
        "No... ", 
        "shhhhhhhhhhhhocking", 
        "I call for rematches! ", 
        "Don't think I've ever seen a decision that read \"TKO (exhaustion)\" before.\n\nEdit; I have now watched part of the fight. I swear it was the grappling version of Rashad Evans/A. Rog. Nogueira.\n\nEdit 2; I literally just yelled \"oh my god, you've been fighting for six minutes, this is not round 13 of Manila!\" So yeah, worst conditioning trainwreck I've ever seen.\n\nEdit 3; Just as I'm thinking \"for fuck's sake, Kimbo, do something when you have mount!\" John McCarthy stands 'em up. From mount. That is how much nothing Kimbo has been doing on the ground. And yet he's still fighting like he just ran a marathon.\n\nEdit 4; Ugh. It's over. Decision was not exaggerating, DaDa 5000 (whoever the fuck that is) literally just collapsed. I swear to god, if the clock wasn't there I'd have thought the fight was in slow motion. Biggest disgrace to MMA since Starnes/Quarry, Jesus Christ...", 
        "They're both old as shit. I'd be surprised if they weren't using something. That's not even a joke.", 
        "Even with drugs they both still suck. Ken Shamrock was good in his day but he needs to retire. ", 
        "Why do this not surprise me.", 
        "Shamrock shredded at 90 years old? yeah no surprise", 
        "When I read this I didn't even think \"I'm surprised they were positive.\" When I read this I thought, \"I can't believe they tested them\"", 
        "What was slice on?  I did not see it in the article.", 
        "The name of the substance was withheld due to possible litigation. ", 
        "Can we just have a competition with all drugs allowed already? We know damn well most athletes use them already.", 
        "We do, it' called NFL", 
        "Haha fair enough", 
        "Also, water is wet.", 
        "Not when it is dry ice", 
        "lol", 
        "Does it matter?  They both lost.", 
        "Gotta wonder if they knew that the max punishment in Texas was 3 months/5K and just said fuck it and went all in on the roids.", 
        "TLDR; TDLR suspended them", 
        "This is just getting more and more sad.", 
        "so we wont get a rematch? im gutted....", 
        "http://www.wompwompwomp.com", 
        "What if DaDa died?", 
        "The level of sarcasm in these comments are too damn high!", 
        "I laughed.  It was pretty hilarious.  \n\nWhen it was a competitive guy like Vitor, then it's serious business as it was unfair real contenders were being knocked out by a known steroid cheat.  For these old guys, though?  Whatever.  ", 
        "No shit. Let's be real, if you're gonna be at the professional level of sports, there has to be drugs involved. ", 
        "sigh.. ken shamrock, just needs to stop.... ", 
        "Bellator is boomin! I see a great future for them.... /:", 
        "Is that in any way surprising", 
        "I bet Bellator wishes that night's events didn't happen", 
        "Ratings were huge and they are s carnie show, they loved it ", 
        "is it fucking 1999....why is Ken Shamrock still a thing?   The dude has to be on social security by now", 
        "hilarious. Hey at least we never have to see them again right? I know the 90 day suspension means nothing, but bellator would reach a new all time low if they were ever to do business with these two again... ", 
        "What a shit show of an event", 
        "you'd think if kimbo was on PEDs he coulda lasted through more than the first round. ", 
        "I knew it! No way Kimbo could push that kinda pace without some juice.", 
        "Its obvious they're on steroids; don't need tests for that.", 
        "What drug was Kimbo even on in that fight? Muscle Relaxant? ", 
        "i think shamrock would be on muscle relaxant cause he couldn't hold easy choke with his massive bicep from kimbo's back &nbsp;\n\n*cough* rigged *cough* &nbsp;\n\ntank abbott fight also seemed rigged", 
        "Is a single person out there the least bit surprised by this shit?", 
        "The pharse \"baby nuts\" comes to mind ", 
        "This is news? ", 
        "[how dada how?](https://memecrunch.com/meme/7OV2Y/how-sway-how/image.png?w=500&c=1)", 
        "Hm.  Nobody saw that coming, huh?   ^^^/SARCASM", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">\"[Chamorro Woman in CA Wrongfully Accused in Mistaken Identity Case](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ro2A3NI8Gg4)\" - Length: 00:04:27", 
        "That is comedy. It goes from drug test, to low blow, back to drug test.", 
        "Shamrock's juicing???? No Way!\n\nSlice is juicing???? Damn he's doing it all wrong...", 
        "If kimbo pops for EPO I don't even know anymore.", 
        "WOW, SO UNEXPECTED. WHO COULD HAVE PREDICTED THIS?", 
        "Team Dada 5000", 
        "Another one from ATT pops. It's really fishy down there in Florida.", 
        "Can someone ELI5, why did they allow him to fight in another contest before the results of this drug test came back?", 
        "what if Dada actually died after that fight? could Kimbo have been charged with manslaughter because he was juicing? ", 
        "Get real", 
        "Wow shocking......", 
        "What a fucking shitshow.", 
        "So Royce was classless, eh Ken?", 
        "So if Dada 5000 would have died as a result of his opponent using a banned, illegal substance, could Kimbo be charged with involuntary manslaughter or something like that? ", 
        "Nope", 
        "I knew that Slice performance was impossible without the use of PEDs.", 
        "lmao", 
        "kek", 
        "The farce just won't fucking stop....", 
        "the meme that keeps on giving", 
        "Didn't see this coming. What a way to cap a career. Nutshot cheap loss to old rival, then popping for steroids.", 
        "WHAT?! KEN ON ROIDS?! WHAT?! I DONT EVEN!!!\n\nDADA 100% win record, who is the goat now?!", 
        "ATT pops again.", 
        "So Ken without a doubt is done. Kimbo on the other hand is the face of Bellator. So he'll be around for 1-2 more fights.\n\nFuck.", 
        "The year4year worst co-main events of all time.", 
        "I thought peds were supposed to help you in a fight?", 
        "How do you think Kimbo's beard is so devine? He probably has the best barber in the whole state.", 
        "Am i the only one that thinks PEDs should give you a lifetime ban?", 
        "I was under the impression these were supposed to be circus freakshow fights anyway. I'm just surprised only 2 pissed hot.", 
        "Yes. So much yes. ", 
        "So if a DA had a justiceboner, could Kimbo be indicted for getting roided up so hard he punched Dada's heart into stopping?", 
        "No, clogged arteries did that", 
        "These two bums are on Peds but people believe UFC champions are actually clean", 
        "My day isn't complete until I visit Hawtcelebs.", 
        "Also how are they going to parade around with a name like that and not have a single post dedicated to [the hawtness](http://i.imgur.com/Q7hZvdg.jpg)", 
        "There's a Double Whopper whimpering in a bag next to an extra large fry in the front seat of her car.", 
        "I feel creepy as fuck looking at these. ", 
        "God, it would fucking suck being famous. ", 
        "You can see her get progressively more uncomfortable and finally get a sweatshirt throughout the pictures.", 
        "The bed of money probably helps you sleep better. ", 
        "It probably helps *a little*, but ultimately fame would be horrible. Not worth the money. Madonna money, maybe, but not Rousey money. Personally, I think it'd be fucking miserable. Ronda Rousey\u2014and every other famous person\u2014is still a person. Give 'em space, leave 'em alone. ", 
        "i hear you, i would not be famous for 10 mil a year.... really i'd rather own my house and car and make 100k a year, than any amount of billions and not be able to go out in public without people watching my every move", 
        "What's worse, you have kids? Shitty paparazzi following them everywhere. It's seriously pathetic. I will never approach a \"celebrity\" for an autograph, or even act like I know who they are (unless the conversation makes it obvious that I have to). They're people. Human beings. Let them be. ", 
        "Who is the supermarket line cunt that linked to hawtcelebs?", 
        "[When you realize it's too late](http://cdn.mmaweekly.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Travis-Browne-UFC-168-Post-Press750.jpg)", 
        "I mean I realize it's mean to criticize somebody's looks but there's a lot of 'asshole' surrounding this story so...\n\nThat's the look you have when you realize you've traded [this](http://therealmissyg.weebly.com/uploads/1/4/2/1/14212866/9426436_orig.jpg) for [this](http://www.hawtcelebs.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/ronda-rousey-at-a-gym-and-gas-station-in-los-angeles-03-09-2016_1.jpg)", 
        "Travis seems to go for the crazy ones. ", 
        "Arlovski's pimp slaps have made him dumb. RIP travis", 
        "Guess it's time for him to start poking his own eyes out.", 
        "Lobster reference?", 
        "Great movie", 
        "I always upvote Lobster references. It's the first time I've seen one, but that doesn't really change anything. ", 
        "[Not really when you see her from the side.](http://www.hawtcelebs.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/ronda-rousey-at-a-gym-and-gas-station-in-los-angeles-03-09-2016_15.jpg)", 
        "dat double chin", 
        "Shh... we're all jerking in a circle.  ", 
        "Sorcery", 
        "Nah dude, she is fat and out of shape.  She needs to join my r/MMA fitness program that includes, but not limited to: furious typing, professional fight analysis, touchbutt, as well as high intensity shit posting.  ", 
        "I think I've found a new home. ", 
        "We have a fitness program?", 
        "Don't forget all the free psychology! ", 
        "And the memeology!", 
        "She's definitely packed on a bit of weight.  Maybe in the new Roadhouse movie they'll change it from a bar to a buffet.", 
        "She is going to be a fucking tank the day she gives up the gym.", 
        "It's one thing to snap pictures of celebs at events and shit, but this is just creepy. If I was just taking sneak photos of random ladies I'd get my ass kicked or arrested. Don't link to this dumb shit. Peoples' obsession with hating Ronda is very strange.", 
        "Her thighs are A+ though. ", 
        "Agreed, thick and squeezable. ", 
        "Ronda looking not dehydrated.", 
        "Dehydrated Ronda is great to be fair.", 
        "They put up the worst photos they possibly could the scummy cunts. Being a famous woman must suck sometimes.", 
        "Imagine your day to day job is to try and photograph someone so that they look as horrible as possible for people to judge and insult, scummy imo", 
        "If you skip through the boxing ones there's a whole heap of fucked photos of her out and about. It's Pathetic.", 
        "I know I'm gonna get downvoted huge for this BUT all the comments I've read are downright horrible and fucked up ( and r/mma is losing its appeal over the past year due to the influx of blatant trolls).\n\nBunch of trolls that would sh!t their f**king pants and fanboy beyond belief if they saw Ronda in person.\n\nThat is all! Sl\u00e1n\n\n", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ns0ZS-AzHDY", 
        "Funny.... the video after it is the Rousey vs. Holm fight on the UFC channel and its set to private when you click on it.", 
        "LMAO", 
        "That's was funny.  Thanks.", 
        "[RIP :(](http://i.imgur.com/K9nqn0c.jpg) ", 
        "To be fair, that's also a tremendous amount of professionally applied make-up and studio lighting.", 
        "That's some creepy ass shit", 
        "Ronda cant fight at 135. Needs to move up to fight Cyborg", 
        "Bigg Rigg's steakhouse went out of business because Ronda ate it.  ", 
        "At least she drives a X6M. ", 
        "damn. Not being very secure with her credit card numbers. Wouldn't be hard to snap a pic of them.", 
        "It won't be long before Honda Housey is challenging Cyborg to come up to 185\n\n", 
        "Two breakfast Ronda", 
        "Nice fucking car", 
        "no. \n\nno no no no no no no.\n\nanyone who drives that crossover monstrosity deserves misfortune. i'm so disappointed bmw even made it. bmw heads know.", 
        "> bmw heads know.\n\nHow you feel?", 
        "I've had this argument a lot of times with people. not surprised i'm getting downvoted to hell. \n\nThere are so many things wrong with this car its crazy. it looks like an suv yet it has none of the attributes that make an suv useful. it can't offroad, it has a low ride height and it has a coupe profile. because of that coupe profile it has no visibility out of the back. its one of the most infamously bad handling bmw's ever made because of the awkward shape. it just goes on and on and on.\n\nIf you want an M just get a proper fucking M. ", 
        "> not surprised i'm getting downvoted to hell.\n\nI think this is mostly because it is pretty off topic in /r/mma and adds nothing to the discussion.", 
        "BMW X6 M?", 
        "yup", 
        "[Mmmm](http://www.hawtcelebs.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/ronda-rousey-at-a-gym-and-gas-station-in-los-angeles-03-09-2016_16.jpg) yeah, scratch it baby, scratch that butt all day, DAT SCRATCHIN", 
        "Would still smash with the fury of our Lord Kratos", 
        "http://www.livestrong.com/article/446683-how-much-oatmeal-should-i-eat/", 
        "Oh yes that's right athletes look like right /r/mma? Like a good old American blob", 
        "She looks like a truck", 
        "[Travis](http://i.giphy.com/A0FGCbbooHe1y.gif)\n", 
        "cankles", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/gQTYIFT.jpg", 
        "still my champ/so beautiful ", 
        "It's off season and she's dirty bulking, let her eat.", 
        "Oh Jesus. 'Hawtcelebs.com'", 
        "Rhonda Roundsy", 
        "She looks good, nowhere near Carla Esparza levels of letting herself go. Let's also not forget what Jones looked like out of camp. Or Rampage.", 
        "No she looks completely healthy and hydrated", 
        "She is pregnant with that Brown baby she stayed around for. ", 
        "Edgar is the worse match up but for his legacy he has to fight Edgar. If he beats Aldo again and moves to lightweight everyone would say he ran from Edgar.", 
        "He's not the worse match-up no", 
        "It must be Full-Camp-Latino-Barney-Rubble Mendes then.", 
        "He is because Edgar's not going to stand and trade with him.", 
        "Not too sure what you mean by that. Saw Frankies last fight?", 
        "You know he was fighting mendes who his primary thing is wrestling right?", 
        "Yes I did, but why would he try to box him when he has such a clear advantage on the ground. I think Edgar will mostly just strike to set up take downs. ", 
        "Who is?", 
        "Nate", 
        "Jacare ", 
        "I want to see him fight Edgar so that he can say he completely cleared out the featherweight division and then move up to lightweight. That said I'd like an Aldo rematch just to see how that fight goes if it plays out a bit longer.", 
        "Yea, this. I don't think he can keep doing FW fights. So in an ideal world (as his fan) he destroys Edgar and gets most of his hype up. Using his lessons from Nate and returning to his normal high fight iq, he handles the LW division. If Aldo wants to fight then come up to LW.\n\nI'd like to see him fight Edgar and Aldo at FW but I seriously doubt he has two more FW fights left. He really needs to win his next FW.", 
        "Why did you assume McGregor's fans prefer Edgar over Aldo?", 
        "Also why is this question only for McGregor fans? ", 
        "As a Teddy Roosevelt fan, I feel excluded. ", 
        "Because Frankie deserves it more.", 
        "Yea but the UFC loves giving insta rematches and its BS if Weidman gets one but Aldo doesn't. It doesn't matter though, both fights would be great", 
        "I don't think Weidman was as competitive against Rockhold as his apologists would lead you to believe, but regardless he didn't get starched in 13 seconds. ", 
        "I disagree a little here. I don't want to see Weidman v Rockhold again because it seemed that Weidman didn't have an answer for Rockhold's size. I'm 90% sure their next fight will go the same. Aldo v. Conor though, I have no idea how the next one would go, 'cause that first fight didn't really show me much.", 
        "It's not BS, the only thing you're thinking of is that Aldo was undefeated for 10 years and held the belt for a lot of years, so you're thinking well if all these other guys are getting rematches, then Aldo should too. You aren't considering the fact that Aldo pulled out of his first fight with McGregor and has pulled out of multiple championship fights. If Aldo didn't pull out of as many fights as he did it would be a different story.", 
        "Weidman's getting it because there's really no other option. Romero is in a bunch of drug testing shit, Jacare is coming off a loss to a non-champion, Silva is coming off a loss to Michael Bisping, and Michael Bisping is Michael Bisping", 
        "Who else would get a title shot besides Weidman. ", 
        "Why? Because he was undefeated for 10 years and defended his title (\n9 times? \n\nNo. That's Aldo.\n\nBetween the two contenders, which has a win over the other? \n\nYep. That's Aldo.", 
        "Aldo lost. Instant rematches are bullshit. Even Cain had to win a fight after getting KO'd and the UFC desperately wanted him to regain the belt. Aldo doesn't draw. This fight will be huge regardless because of Conor, so why not give it to the guy on a legitimate win streak?", 
        "Because Aldo got knocked the fuck out, I don't care if it was 13 seconds, he got sloppy and he got slept, Edgar has been putting in great performances and has a solid streak going, I'm all for new match ups, after Edgar then probably Aldo.", 
        " he got sloppy\n\n\nLol\n\n", 
        "He did? Full power KO punch leaning in front of himself and opening for the left straight. He wanted to win straight away he was not fighting smart.", 
        "What would you call it? He charged head first at McGregor. swung wide and left himself wide open a known counter puncher. I like Aldo, don't get me wrong, but Edgar is the better fight here.", 
        "Which one got knocked out in 13 secs?? And don't you call it a goddamn fluke", 
        "my turn! \ni dont wanna see aldo fight for a bit cause he was just knocked dead in 13 seconds!\nfrankie was not!", 
        "*Viva La Brasilia*", 
        "As a mcgregor fan I would LIKE to see an Aldo rematch because I think Conor will win, but I know conor HAS to fight frankie or he'll end up like mayweather pacquiao with everyone wondering \"what could have happened?\"", 
        "Those guys did fight and it sucked. ", 
        "Yeah they fought like 5 years later when both were out of their prime", 
        "I don't wanna see Aldo pull out of a fight again, plus I would like to see McGregor knock Frankie out if possible.", 
        "Because\n\n1. We've already had over a year of Aldo/McGregor promotion, I'm bored of the match-up, it doesn't excite me anymore.\n\n2. Aldo needs to earn a rematch. This sub seems pretty hypocritical when it comes to instant rematches, Aldo deserves one, but Ronda didn't?\n\n3. Frankie deserves it. Heck, Frankie deserved a shot after beating Swanson. ", 
        "I am a firm believer that \"he/she was so dominant\" is not a valid reason for an instant rematch. ", 
        "They weren't dominant when they were being knocked unconscious. To me, that's all that matters. Even Weidman deserves a rematch more than Aldo.", 
        "I don't believe in instant rematches that doesn't involve resolving a dispute, what is there to dispute about Rockhold parking himself on top of Weidman and turning him into a fucking zombie? What is there to dispute about Ronda getting head kicked? Aldo getting slept in 13 seconds? Instant rematches in my mind only makes sense when there is a terrible judge decision or controversy but a guy getting fucked up in 13 seconds is not a valid excuse no matter how long he has been dominant, \"dominance\" doesn't warrant you a fucking rematch when \"dominance\" is imposed on you by the guy who took your title.", 
        ">  what is there to dispute about Rockhold parking himself on top of Weidman and turning him into a fucking zombie? \n\nWell there is the issue of them both being less than 100% going into that fight, plus with Yoel out of the picture the division has no #1 contender.\n\nI agree it's less than optimal, but it's better than Aldo getting a free rematch.", 
        "I guess you can say that but why not give Luke a different opponent and Weidman gets another win then we can do it, this made sense up until Yoel fucked up but barring this type of situation a division like FW has contenders to use up, why hold it all up to give a title shot to a guy who got KO'd in 13 seconds.", 
        "> We've already had over a year of Aldo/McGregor promotion, I'm bored of the match-up, it doesn't excite me anymore.\n    \n+1", 
        "I'm glad somebody agrees with me. Aldo/Holloway and McGregor/Edgar are much more exciting than another bloody rematch.", 
        "Ronda was completely outclassed for a few minutes.\n\nAldo took one punch.\n\nNot saying it was a lucy punch. Conor deserved the KO win, obviously. But we didn't really see a fight. We could be looking at a Cain/JDS situation here.", 
        "Exactly. Ppl don't want to admit this. Nobody can go watch an Aldo fight and honestly say he doesn't deserve a rematch. The man is a fuckin animal ", 
        "> Ronda was completely outclassed for a few minutes. Aldo took one punch.\n\nYep, Aldo barely lasted 10 seconds. Ronda made it all the way into the second round.\n\n>  But we didn't really see a fight. We could be looking at a Cain/JDS situation here.\n\nNot really applicable since Cain went into that fight injured. Also Cain had to win another fight to earn that rematch.\n", 
        "Ofc its applicaple. Whats not is bringing up an injury like that makes unconsciousness more likely.", 
        "> Whats not is bringing up an injury like that makes unconsciousness more likely.\n\nYes, of course. How stupid of me to insinuate that going into a fight injured increases your chances of losing. What a fool I am.", 
        "Yeah pretty silly to insinuate that an ACL affects your brain rattling. JDS had a knee injury in that one aswell, so yeah.", 
        "> Yeah pretty silly to insinuate that an ACL affects your brain rattling.\n\nUh, well it affects your ability to fight. To bob and weave, avoid punches, shoot for takedowns. Which is pretty damn important in a fight. It also completely destroys your ability to train for said fight. \n\nSo yeah, I'd say it was quite relevant.\n\n> JDS had a knee injury in that one aswell, so yeah.\n\nNot equal at all. JDS had a torn meniscus, not ACL. The later is a far more serious injury. Plus JDS' style is far less reliant on his knees. \n\nAll of this is evident by the fact that Cain demolished JDS when they were both healthy.", 
        "I feel like you never watched their first fight with these arguments.", 
        "And what makes you say that?", 
        "Because he ate an overhand trying to counter with a hook and it had nothing to do with his knees or ability to move.", 
        "- It's a fresh match-up, and if he wins it he will have actually cleaned out the division's top contenders. Beating Mendes, Aldo and Frankie inside a year would be extremely impressive, and he also has the win over Holloway. There are rematches there, yes, but I would like to see him fight Frankie first. \n- I like Frankie and would like to see him get his shot and payday aswell.\n- We had almost a year of promotion for the Aldo fight that landed mere seconds, I'm not in a big rush to see it again so quick. Sure it still leaves questions unanswered and it would've been great to see a war between the two. But I don't want to see it for a while yet. Besides, Aldo should take more time off than that.\n\nAlso I don't see how it would \"guarantee\" 25 minutes of ground and pound, very one-sided analysis there. It's possible sure, but it's also possible that Conor knocks him out.", 
        "People forgetting how many fights Aldo has pulled out of, too. We are talking about the biggest card ever here. Booking Aldo is a risk. I definitely think the UFC will take Edgar over Aldo for that reason if they are similar in needle moving powers. I do wonder if the UFC is thinking about which fight is easier for Conor though..", 
        "Frankie will show. He could potentially join Randy and BJ which is a good marketing angle. He's shown the heart of a thousand lions. He is one of the most under appreciated fighters on the roster. He understands and speaks English so the interviews and pressers would generate more hype. It's been three years since his last loss.    \n\nedit: Conor almost fought the current LW champion. Why not have him fight the former LW champion?    \nedit2: Edgar was due for a rematch with Aldo but McGregor jumped to the front of the line.", 
        "I'd rather him fight Aldo again. Are people really clamoring for the Edgar fight? Edgar Isn't exactly a draw. I like him as a fighter, but I honestly think Conor would whoop his ass. Aldo is a much better fight. Conor was in Aldo's head so bad he couldn't even think straight. I think a rematch will be better.\n\nI will say Frankie always shows up, and he's a good fighter. I just think Aldo is a better fight in general.\n", 
        "What the hell is Aldo going to do if he loses though?", 
        "What does it matter? He was the champion for 10.years.  He got knocked out in 13 seconds says it was a fluke and that he'll beat Conor in a rematch. Let them go again. It's on Aldo if he loses.", 
        "Yeah, that's fair. Do you think it's the choice he should make, though? ", 
        "I mean, who else is he going to fight. He was undefeated for a decade. He beat Chad twice. He whooped Frankie's ass already. He already said he wants title fights or nothing. If he gets knocked out by Conor again then his chance at being champion again will be over, and that will be the story of Jose Aldo. He'll probably retire. ", 
        "You're right. I would like to see him fight Holloway or maybe Oliveira. Even someone lower in ranking that he can look good against. Just one fight to build Aldo's confidence a little bit, and build a bit of hype for a re-match. I know he said title or McGregor, but if he loses to Conor in his next fight he's kinda screwed. I personally don't feel like he should retire yet, but even if he fights Conor next I think he should sit out a little while longer and let Frankie fight first. ", 
        "The sooner McGregor has wins over the top 3 FWs the sooner Conor can start fighting at LW or WW again.  ", 
        "Because as a fight fan, I want to see the best fight the best.  We saw McGregor fight Aldo.  Aldo got KTFO.  Okay.  Let's see another person fight McGregor.  Best option so far?  Frankie Edgar.", 
        "When Mc KO's him in the first round I'm going to enjoy watching the next Joey Diaz podcast, that's for sure.", 
        "Aldo took a serious impact to the chin, flash KO, I think if they rematch so soon it will not take many punches for Conor to crack that chin again. This isn't a knock on Aldo I just think he needs to let his chin recover.", 
        "I agree. The other thing is I don't know how confident Aldo will be this time around. I would rather see him get a win first. This just feels like Barao vs Dillashaw 2 all over again. I love Aldo and Barao, but their whole camp is delusional. The game has evolved without them, and they don't seem to have realised this yet. At the same time, I know Aldo is never changing camp. I just hope they don't approach this the way they approached Barao's re-match. ", 
        "A victory over Edgar will mean that Conor has cleared out the division.\n\nAlso, there are no guarantees in MMA. Frankie's fight with Cub will be 1 and a half years ago by the time that he faces Conor. There is no guarantee that he can replicate that performance especially against a stylistically different opponent in Conor. ", 
        "I think Conor fans rather Aldo. I know Conor and his camp does. ", 
        "My answer is \"The Answer\".", 
        "I would prefer Conor to fight Aldo, a more entertaining fight and Aldo deserves an immediate rematch, however the up side to fighting Egdar is if he wins he will prove a lot of people wrong.", 
        "The emotional toll the year long set up to their fight took. I'd rather see aldo fight and get another W before facing McG.", 
        "so you stop bitching", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers...", 
        "[Nate Diaz 2016](http://i.imgur.com/a9kygHq.png)!", 
        "I'll never not upvote that. Won't get old. Greatest post fight interview moment in history imo", 
        "Over at /ufc bunch of butthurt hypocrite nuthuggers are downvoting anything diaz's win related.\n\nEdit: I'm so relieved to see  like-minded people, i was starting to think i was  just being too salty, but with everyone oiling up connor because he's  \" humble in loss or [victory](http://entimports.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/223232.png) (flipping off aldo's corner after fight) \"  i lost my shit.", 
        "I'm still hearing podcasts (fighter and the kid) and reddit call Conor humble and a class act, its killing me.  I'm like, are you guys even paying attention??", 
        "This is exactly what i mean.", 
        "[this is on their frontpage, i think it's pretty funny](http://i.imgur.com/oD5ITNa.jpg)\n\ndon't know what you're talking about. That CSS design is atrocious though", 
        "TIL there's a UFC subreddit people actually visit. I'd hate to see how bad it is over there, especially considering what /r/mma is like. ", 
        "i wonder how many people are at r/ufc, unbeknownst to them that there is r/mma? ", 
        "Like parallel universes", 
        "Not sure but it's an entirely different feeling over there so it doesn't seem like the same crowd as over here at all.", 
        "It's atrocious. It's where people who think that \"UFC\" and \"MMA\" are the same word live. The kind of people who say things like \"I train UFC.\" \n\n*shudder*", 
        "i trane ufc bro", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/ufc/comments/476j27/dos_anjos_injured_withdraws_from_ufc_196/d0ana32?context=3\n\nThey are basically the same people that post on UFC pages on facebook. Clueless.", 
        "That hurts", 
        "It's definitely a worse sub reddit but I still visit both. UFC sometimes has a link that doesn't make it to mma front page which is worth a read. \n\nStay away from the discussions though. Much more close minded. ", 
        "Right in front of Wildcard boxing gym on Vine in Hollywood lol.", 
        "Is that an enemy gym or something?", 
        "Maybe Justin Bieber trains there and now he is too scared to enter? :D", 
        "can we get a proposed sculpture in the middle of downtown Stockton?", 
        "nick & nate standing back to back each doing their flexing / mean mug pose", 
        "Ill start drawing up some plans for a Diaz sculpture.\n\nI envision Nick on the right carrying a bike on his back with a wolf encircling his left leg with a couple of tickets in its teeth.\n\nNate on the left handing a child in a gi a balloon animal.", 
        "Needs nunchucks.", 
        "That actually sounds very good. ", 
        "I thought so, but \u00af\\\\\\_(\u30c4)_/\u00af", 
        "I think Nate's fame slingshotted past Nick's overnight.  ", 
        "I mean it doesn't help that Nick hasn't fought for a while either.", 
        "That's really good! Love his expression.", 
        "Where is this?", 
        "https://www.google.com/maps/@34.0916476,-118.3264349,3a,15y,229.98h,80.51t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1sTgEBefA04i2zEzp4MTPGBg!2e0!7i13312!8i6656!6m1!1e1", 
        "You should get instant gold or a special flair or something. That is unusually, creepily, specific, and useful.", 
        "Easy to find when you realize Wild Card Boxing gym is right behind the art work. ", 
        "Fuuuuck I knew where that was too when I seen it. Use to go to that three clubs bar right there ", 
        "It's all in the context he used it well.", 
        "The internet scares me sometimes.", 
        "Think that's weird? Look behind you.", 
        "That's so bad ass. And, not street art, but I made some new fan art of my own after Nate's win over #TeamTouchButt.\n\n[Stockton Slap Instructional](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CdWFrJjUsAAtF3M.jpg)\n\n[Nate Diaz Shirt](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CdWFq9lVAAEV890.jpg)\n\n", 
        "Someone make a Three Wolfticket Moon T-shirt.  ", 
        "My take on your wish breh:\n\n[3 Wolf Tickets Nick](http://imgur.com/0IDAoxv)", 
        "Ploiceman comes along:\n\nPoliceman:This is vandalism, you are under arrest\n\nSuspect: I don't give a fuck\n\nPoliceman: I don't give a fuck either\n\nBoth walk away ", 
        "I love how Nate is both being celebrated for how badass and mean of a mother fucker he is, and for also showing how charismatic and endearing he can be in some weird way that no one ever saw coming. So happy for the dude!!", 
        "I loved the interview where he detailed his game plan that ended with \"...and take home a big bag of cash\"", 
        "I feel like I've heard fighters saying Nate is a cool dude for a while now.  Other fighters seem to be a big fan of him.  ", 
        "Awesome.\n\nNeeds more blood on his [face](http://i1.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article7504155.ece/ALTERNATES/s1227b/Conor-McGregor-vs-Nate-Diaz.jpg).", 
        "Have you seen anyone Photoshop all the randoms out of this picture? I've been looking for something like that but haven't found anything. ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/JEnXoNf.jpg?1", 
        "do you have one of him just floating in space?", 
        "That's bad ass. Thanks bro!", 
        "That's dope.", 
        "this artist does awesome work all over L.A....but taggers usually try and destroy them by day's end", 
        "I fucking hate taggers.", 
        "I love hometown heroes. ", 
        "This is in Los Angeles.", 
        "*homestate", 
        "does anyone know the artist? super impressive stencil work. love that wood block carving style linear line work. ", 
        "It begins", 
        "\"We're not here to take part, we're here to take over\".", 
        "So happy for the past 5 days.", 
        "Not even flexing", 
        "Sucks that somebody got stabbed in front of it. ", 
        "Honedtly I've been randomly mean mug flexing like that for the past 5 days.", 
        "Now someone get that graffiti artist to stockton or whatever\n\n...motherfucker", 
        "Sick. Anyone know where that is?", 
        "It's all in the middle of downtown Stockton?", 
        "A gun show is a deceptively good victory stance. Thought it was silly at first, but no. It's not. ", 
        "Damn, they gave him some Gyno", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Is this a reference to some one thing in particular or what am I missing?", 
        "I don't remember the story exactly, something about Nick Diaz accusing another fighter of \"selling Wolf Tickets\". If you google \"Nick Diaz Wolf Tickets\" you'll find the info you seek.", 
        "It's from the press conference for the GSP fight ", 
        "Wtf? So you just copied this dudes comment and deleted the relevant bits?\n\nhttps://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4a19bx/nate_diaz_street_art/d0wnvph", 
        "And he didn't even do it correctly.", 
        "New?", 
        "He's not that cut at 175.", 
        "/u/00Spartacus messaged me asking if someone could paint a dick on there for him to suck.", 
        "Damn straight, it better be Diaz's dick tho because that Stockton juice is too good to pass up on.", 
        "I thought he had three legs at first.. Then I remembered what the third one was. WAR DIAZ", 
        "Conan: \"So describe how your life has changed with all the added publicity and hype from your last fight. How do you feel like your hometown of Stockton has culturally shaped your perspective?\"\n \n    \nNate: \"It's whatever.\"", 
        "Conor: \"I am the owner of the UFC. LOL you`re poor Conan you have to do tV shows to eat. fooking bums\"", 
        "Nate's hilarious and as much as we all love him here it just wouldnt work for the rest of the audience", 
        "nate diaz can barely string a sentence without saying whatever", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Whatever motherfucker!", 
        "Nah. We don't need to commercialize them. Diaz Bros haven't even done their favorite podcast yet.", 
        "Petition or not, Networks have to pay the FCC for every time they go over the swear limit. Pretty sure Nate would break the record before the first commercial break unless he's on his greatest behavior ever. ", 
        "Conan is on TBS now. ", 
        "That's cool. FCC still regulates it. ", 
        "I don't think they really do on cable. The cable networks pretty much just answer to consumers and advertisers. It's how comedy central gets away with running uncensored stuff. ", 
        "The late night talk shows are mostly pre recorded, but yeah, could be a problem for the morning shows, but then again, that's not really a target demo.  Not going to be doing the same circuit Holly did.", 
        "He'd gain an appreciation for what Conor and Honda have to go through to generate the PPV numbers they enjoy.    \n\nNate should get some media/public speaking coaches so he can crush these interviews. He's got a fantastic personality.", 
        "Nah, I like Nate just the way he is. It's just a matter of him feeling comfortable enough on camera but I don't really want him to change, personally", 
        "Nate seems like a smart guy and now is getting his first real spot in the public eye; he might capitalize on it and perform in a conan interview because he sees real financial opportunity. ", 
        "I hope so. We need more Nate.", 
        "Start whatever you want, it's not gonna happen.", 
        "He wouldn't come.", 
        "Is this full interview somewhere? I was rooting for Conor but I've always been a Diaz brothers fan and I'm so happy to see Nate get the exposure he deserves.", 
        " #LegitimizeDiaz", 
        "Nate Diaz interviewed on Extra.  We live in strange and wonderful times.", 
        "I'm utterly gobsmacked", 
        "I love all of this attention he's getting. If anyone in the UFC deserve it, it's this guy. ", 
        "I wanted McGregor to win but it's been a great boost to Nate's career and it's great to see him on shows like this, his laugh at the very end is hilarious, he seems to be enjoying the media a bit more this side of the fight, hope his career keeps going strong.", 
        "I wouldn't be surprised if he's on Ellen talking about the different types of weed he likes. ", 
        "I can totally see him teaching Ellen how to do the Stockton slap and mean-mug like a Diaz bro as their segment ends... #209onEllen", 
        "I think ufc 196 and afterwards is the most press he's ever done.", 
        "His bum life was changed... At least conor predicted that correctly ", 
        "This is the good timeline.", 
        "I'm surprised motherfucker", 
        "[Suprise motherfucker](https://youtu.be/vBNSIQGcHbM)", 
        "I believe it's muthafucka.", 
        "That was hilarious. \"All rise, mother fucker!\"", 
        "Its so weird to watch him on these mainstream shows, I need unfiltered Diaz!", 
        "Let's get him on Ellen! Jesus, that would be wonderful. ", 
        "It'd be the weirdest/most unexpected thing for the audience since Kanye debuted his hilarious Bound 2 video on Ellen.", 
        "I saw that fuckin eight of OG on the counter, I looked up at it and thought, \"I need to smoke a fuckin bowl, naw mean? I need to stay alive\".", 
        "Glad he's getting the hype, but sad that it's in media where he can't curse. That's like telling an eagle not to soar.", 
        "I was thinking the whole time,  I hope extra knows not to make this a live interview. ", 
        "It's almost like they want him to curse on media where he's not allowed. ", 
        "It's okay. When he answered, \"No, I wasn't surprised,\" I screamed MUTHAFUCKAS for him.", 
        "^this. did the same thing. Stockton high five, homie.", 
        "\"Stockton High Five\" Def. - A punch in the mouth", 
        "Stockton fist bump?", 
        "lol - Pretty much every term fitting the example \"Stockton xxxx\"  means \"a punch in the mouth\"", 
        "It's a good learning experience for him, forces him to articulate. ", 
        "Absolutely. And it's not like someone like Nate Diaz is going to forget who he is by undertaking \"tamer\" interviews for a broader audience.", 
        "Beautiful. ", 
        "\"If i cant smoke or swear im fucked!\" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vNS5jBcflo", 
        "This is exactly the scene I was thinking of while watching Nate! Thanks for digging it up ", 
        "\"Just the defendant please.\"", 
        "fucking jake and gilbert are the 2 biggest fuck giraffes in the dumb dumb salad. ", 
        "Thank God for the choices and voices act.", 
        "Smokes, let's go.", 
        "But I've only got two left!", 
        "[2 Shots of Vodka](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JX-P9R7W0bE)", 
        "Spread your wings, motherfuckers", 
        "Nate's so much more comfortable in front of the camera than nick, if it was nick who had beaten conor and was being interviewed like this he'd be like 'i've come to some realisations, you might say.....' and then ramble for 10 minutes on some serious tangents.", 
        "Yeah but then imagine on all gold we'd miss out on. No thanks!", 
        "I've come to some understandings that I've fought all the hitters, but a gentleman never tells.", 
        "\"Am I selling Wolf Tickets?!\"", 
        "It's because of the host, I hope nates taking her to pound town", 
        "He giving her bunz that stockton slap right now, if you nah'mean", 
        "Nate has a gf that is also a very pretty blonde", 
        "It could be that she's just a very good interviewer, but they certainly played well off of each other.  The timing and flow of the interview was really good, which makes me think they have good chemistry.  So, yeah, I hope they hit it off too.", 
        "She used to be on ESPN so she definitely knows how to interact with athletes", 
        "What's kind of beautiful to me is that I think Nick bore the brunt of the nastiness in their lives, helping shelter Nate a little, so that Nate could be a happier and more well-adjusted person.  And now we see the fruits of that labor.  \nFor every bit of Nate that's smiling and flowing with his media talk, there's probably a huge chunk of Nick that took some serious emotional trauma.  Like a shield.  Like a good older brother.", 
        "Not to sound rude, but how could you possibly come to this conclusion? Has either of them stated that something like this occurred or is it purely speculation on your part? I can't remember them talking in depth about their childhood", 
        "Yeah, /u/766ap definitely took that to the next level of speculation.  That's how I write when I've just started meditating off of some of that *kind*, guessing /u/766ap is on some of that *209*.", 
        "I've been following Nick since Strikeforce - paying attention to all of the stuff he's said - favorite fighter.    \nRemember the stuff from Nate about burritos?  They grew up in some fucked up circumstances.  Street fights galore, social ostracism, diagnosable anxiety disorders, etc.  \nBut yes it is some conjecture too.", 
        "Yeah they both have a bit. Nick a little more though. We need a doc.\n\nPaging Bratt Mamley... Can you please edit together all their interview footage into a mini-documentary for people to get to know the Diaz Bros? Anyone know if there is a batman type symbol we can shine and get ol' Bratt to save the day here?", 
        "I too would like Bratt Mamley to make a la carte videos for us at /r/mma.", 
        "Kinda typical older bro/younger bro dynamic, don't you think?  The first kid eats a bit more shit, and has to grow up a bit quicker, while the younger kids get the benefit of that experience (for good or ill).", 
        "There was an interview with Nick where he said they had good parents, just lived in a poor/violent area. ", 
        "I'll bet some indeterminate amount of money that nick's mom smoked while she was pregnant with him but not nate. dudes way the fuck out there and his bro is way more chill and coherent than he is.", 
        "It's not purely speculation. [Here's a piece](http://www.mmafighting.com/2012/5/4/2998733/a-tale-of-two-diaz-brothers) on their childhood that explains what kind of trail Nick had to blaze (heh). Note the father-like quality to Nick's actions toward Nate. They had no father to provide this guidance.\n\nIn psychological terms, I'd think you'd say that Nick was parentalized as a child, something I've heard can happen in dysfunctional homes, especially to the older kid. I'd say that's pretty traumatic in itself, robbing the kid of his childhood.", 
        "Lol yeah. I love Nick but he would either never show up for an interview like this or would be unbearably uncomfortable and ramble nonsensically about GSP not making weight, steroids, mountain biking, all while looking around in random directions. I know it might be too much to hope for, but if Nick comes back strong and Nate keeps winning, Nate would do well as the Diaz bro ambassador, if you will.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Why would he?", 
        "Probably not but he seems like a candidate, doesn't he?", 
        "A gentleman never tells. ", 
        "Nate actually has a very sharp sense of comedic timing. This, touchbutt, \"i'm not surprised\", \" oh, so you're a wrestler now?\", the rant after the Johnson fight - all memorable moments delivered with underrated conciseness. Conor goes way overboard to diss his opponents and while entertaining at times it feels like he's reaching, and he compensates by just raising his voice and repeating shit. Nate is a genuinely funny dude.", 
        "https://youtu.be/4pl6xST-tGY", 
        "big-ass corn-fed motherfucker", 
        "\"You're on steroids.\"\n\nThe Diaz bros have bright careers in marketing and advertising just waiting for this MMA fad to pass.", 
        "I'm a fan of McGregor, I believe he's got a genuine sense of humour in him as well but him doing press is super cringey. Especially talk shows and interviews where he's glorifying mexican cartels or threatening people about burying them in the desert is just... I can't watch that shit", 
        "Unfortunately there's millions of people who love the gangster persona. ", 
        "You're right, but ufc is shooting itself in the foot if they think that's the only way to sell this sport on a global scale. WWE fake beef seems idiotic to many crowds outside North America. Not to mention there's a big chance some of the talent in ufc in the future may have following among street gangs. The whole Biggie/Tupac beef was about making money with the whole thing, but it got ugly when their idiot street code entourages and extended crew felt pressure to back the talk resulting in numerous deaths. ", 
        "Ufc 196 had the highest buyrate of all time but the ufc is doing something wrong? \n\nLol ok.", 
        "Don't get me wrong, ufc is growing there's no denying that. Marketing these fights also needs portraying fighters as intresting personalities too, I get that. I'm saying the growth could be faster and fanbase more steady if they dropped the most blatant superlatives. A lot of that narrative isn't consistent with the nature of the sport. Currently when fan favorites lose the mainstream doesn't know why, and they don't really spend much time trying to figure shit out anyway.", 
        ">I'm saying the growth could be faster and fanbase more steady if they dropped the most blatant superlatives. \n\nYou have absolutely no evidence of this at all, come on dude. Bandwagoners don't give a fuck about the technicalities of the sport, they're invested into the drama and the ride while it lasts. That's where the payday comes in any sport. Bandwagoners hopping on the train once a team/guy starts winning. I mean yeah I guess bandwagoners are kind of annoying but they are the biggest reason sports continue to grow and grow, UFC needs it as much as any other sport, its a good thing.\n\n>A lot of that narrative isn't consistent with the nature of the sport. Currently when fan favorites lose the mainstream doesn't know why, and they don't really spend much time trying to figure shit out anyway.\n\nSame with bandwagon fans in any other sport. \n\nAlso, who says the UFC isn't expanding globally? Six more fights next year in Britain was the story the other day no? And even so, if they don't want to go head on into international investment like your post is seemingly alluding to, they still have a ton more room to grow in NA. \n\nNotice how football doesn't really *seriously* focus on anything outside of the US? Not worth the investment. I get that fighting is different because you don't have franchises or regular seasons, but still, nothing wrong with focusing on your main market instead of investing in things internationally that would take years or possibly decades to pay off.  ", 
        ">who says the UFC isn't expanding globally?\n\nNot me. They're going for Europe: the Reebok deal and the redesign from tribal tattoo mall metal look to b/w uniforms was a dead giveaway. They're learning things slow and that's all I'm trying to point out. Football here in rest of the world is a slightly different game. Fans are global, loyal and fanatic, they understand the fairly simple sport fairly well and demand high standards from players and management. Players are brought up based only on their skills and are constantly re-evaluated by their performance. No one expects them to be smart or particularly good at PR or anything else than playing the game. Then again the sport is absolutely full of personalities not unlike Diaz brothers, and they all have fans globally. I know fighting is different, but there's a human aspect to mma that's being ignored and that's what ufc is hard pressed to learn. You brand cattle, not fighters. Just today Dana white started backtracking his own butthurt about Holm's loss. He's basically forced to contradict himself every time with every superfight because his own hype contradicts the reality. I cannot understand how that guy hasn't lost his mind already.", 
        "That entire steroids exchange was amazing. I think that's when Nate first got in Conors head for real. He was so rustled by those accusations. ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/aryI7VI.gif", 
        "what is this from", 
        "One of the Embedded episodes before UFC 183.", 
        "I have never seen Nate so comfortable talking on camera. Don't get me wrong Nick is definitely the more intense and troubled one but Nate has his fair shares of \"just uh... Whatever\" moments. He was even fucking cracking jokes in this video. I think those titties just hypnotise him", 
        "He got so much attention after the Conor fight he just had to learn how to deal with it real quick.", 
        "I feel like Nick is actually a very intelligent guy who just never really got a chance to shine in school and was always treated as a problem kid for having to defend himself, always moving from school to school, dealing with the death of his girlfriend, etc.\n\nHe knows exactly what he wants to say, it's just hard to get it out sometimes when it always feels like everyone still thinks you are the problem child stuck in this adults body.", 
        "Nick learns from his opponents. Conor had him witnessing, first hand- a man inflating his paydays by being interesting in front of the camera.", 
        "I think Nick is infinitely more interesting than Conor. I can't even describe his character succinctly, but part of that disdain towards the media is why he's so fascinating. He feeds off of negative energy, when he hears boos, \"good Ima flip you off and fuck up your favourite fighter\". So yeah he gets a bit paranoid around cameras and although he knows it's necessary being a bad guy, he will never be cracking jokes like Conor does", 
        "Does everything have to be a comparison to Conor?  You'd think the hype would die down a little now that the guy lost.  ", 
        "What's the big deal? Why can't you stand to even see his name? You got issues Stan, I think you need some counseling.", 
        "For the 3rd time. Fighters lose. There is a lot of luck involved when a fighter at this high a level can string together a super long win streak. ", 
        "Nick Diaz' media persona makes me think of Stone Cold Steve Austin... Not that he's copying him, but his personality has all the things Stone Cold played on to break mainstream while being real as fuck.\n\nSteve Austin drove in on a monster truck, gave his boss the finger, and drank a 6-pack.  Nick smokes monster bongs on press calls and no-shows press conferences because that's Nick.  He's very easy to identify with, and kills it when it comes to memorable phrases and moments.", 
        "I'd be interested to see how he'd be if everyone treated him like GSP, just cheers and adulation for the most part.", 
        ">  he will never be cracking jokes\n\nwhere I come from people like that get slapped :}", 
        "Either way, a documentary about the Diaz brothers would be the best thing ever. If it could even get done with Nick's disdain for being under a microscope.", 
        "Agreed :)\n\nNick has said before he's cool if people wanna come down to Stockton and hang... I can see a tiny crew of tokers willing to roll in a gi and bike a lot hanging with them for a few months without issue.", 
        "Let's do it! Haha", 
        "Best documentaries are not fan-flicks, though.", 
        "Yes, unless you are a fan. Then it's a wonderful circlejerk of happiness. But yeah. I get it.\n\nWe can have Dana do it then.", 
        "Conor has definitely made the last few years interesting. The dude has a lot of fun hyping a fight and brings a lot of exposure to the sport.", 
        "He was def shooting glances at them bitties.", 
        ">were u surprised? \n\n\n\nbitch did u not watch the post fight interview", 
        "oh she did, she wanted him to say it", 
        "we all know what she wants", 
        "Im just happy to see Nate happy", 
        "Getting enough money to retire on makes people happy.  ", 
        "Getting love, too, from all kinds of supporters from around the world is really important.  I imagine the Diaz bros are both happy to see the love fans have for them.\n\nFor them to have chosen the hard road, meaning, doing the whole MMA career-thing on *their* terms and finding approval must mean a lot.", 
        "I hope he does't retire. It has been a long road, with no compromise in their integrity of who he and Nick are. I would like to see Nate make another run as a champion before he bows out.", 
        "Nate seems to be really loving all the attention he's gotten. I wonder if it'll start to bother him soon the Diaz bros never really seemed like the type to like this stuff.  Really happy for Nate though! This is the first time I've been happy for someone winning a fight or even a game for that matter lol", 
        "> I wonder if it'll start to bother him soon the Diaz bros never really seemed like the type to like this stuff. \n\nWell,considering the contract he was apparently on and how unsatisfied he seemed and the fact that attention == more caring ==more power...I think he'll either outright enjoy it and make the most of it or...suck it up and still make the most of it", 
        "I really just like how he's being real. \"Nah it's whatever\" My fucking thoughts exactly. In a way it's dumb to even ask about Justin Bieber as if there's any aspect of that \"beef\" that should matter at this point. This is all very sobering among all the uninformed coverage and ufc hype train", 
        "> In a way it's dumb to even ask about Justin Bieber as if there's any aspect of that \"beef\" that should matter at this point\n\nOf course it doesn't matter. But...Bieber is a huge star and nothing bad can come of people talking about him in conjunction with you.", 
        "Perhaps nothing bad, but it's just meaningless drivel that leads to nowhere. Nate is never going to slap Bieber, McGregor is never going to fight Mayweather, Rousey will never fight Cain... I just appreciate the fact Nate doesn't inflate the subject beyond casual jokes. McGregor always works on some angle to build more hype, and while you might appreciate the notion of how that benefits the sport, it also creates a massive wave of idiots who think it's somehow relevant. And it's getting old.", 
        "Nate's making it old by responding to it in this fashion. All the Bieber thing did was draw attention to him. Net=positive.\n", 
        "Seriously, can you guys watch anything without comparing it to McGregor?  The guy lost, who gives a fuck how he acts compared to Nate.  ", 
        "Nah fuck everybody else, we will always compare everyone to McTapper", 
        "This is exactly what I'm talking about. If you read my comment again, you might notice I'm not limiting my criticism to Conor only. You shouldn't read everything into this bandwagon bullshit. Fact is I'm a huge fan of McGregor's fighting style. One of the reasons he lost was likely because he regressed into a role of a knockout artist, very frustrating to witness.", 
        "> but it's just meaningless drivel that leads to nowhere\n\nBut that's nearly everything in mainstream celebrity \"news\" :/", 
        "I'm not so sure about Nate not slapping Justin beiner...", 
        "that's actually true, but if he talks about it he'll never get close enough, lol", 
        "Genuinely happy for Nate, glad he won", 
        "For sure and I'm also really happy that he's getting some mainstream media shine.", 
        "So it's a pretty girl what Nate needs to be relaxed in an interview!?", 
        "Nah he's just in a really good mood right now\nHis gf is also a very pretty blonde", 
        "Or a good interviewer? ", 
        "He was extremely relaxed with Cruz Edgar and Stann too", 
        "Well they all have pretty nice titties too.", 
        "Seems like that. Some serious tiddy watch going on there by Nathan.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Wtf?", 
        "That chick is fine..oofta", 
        "She definitely deserves a romance explosion or two.  ", 
        "are you from wisconsin", 
        "\u256d\u261e(\u0361 \u0361\u00b0 \u035c \u0296 \u0361 \u0361\u00b0)\u256d\u261e\u00a0\n         \n\\ . . \\ \n      \n/ \u2570U\u256f\\", 
        "I feel like, whenever I see an interviewer in a forum like this she has an 80+ chance of being hot", 
        "I would make love to her If you see what I mean ( \u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0)", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[I mean yeah totally, even if she didn't really want to she would, if it was just the two of us in the middle of nowhere she'd totally be down, y'know, because of the implication.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yUafzOXHPE)", 
        "I would definitely give her compliments and see if she wanted to hang out sometime, or whatever.  If she were free, and didn't have other plans or a boyfriend, or just really wanted to see some Star Wars collectibles...  Ooooh yeah, I almost definitely would.", 
        "I would totally like to get to know her. You know, ask her about what she like, her stories, whatever. And if she's interested, I can tell her about me too. I would definitely enjoy her company, bro. ", 
        "I'd stick it right in her ass, you know, if she felt comfortable enough with me and was into that kind of thing.", 
        "\"This is America\"\n\nI don't know if knows that Drake and Bieber are Canadian or not.", 
        "They live in America", 
        "Doesn't really matter, it's taking place in Murica.", 
        "As someone living in Canada...Canada is where Americans who think they're better than America go.", 
        "There are plenty of American expats that might fit that description all around the world.  Americans are a travelling folk:  we get around.", 
        "Holy shit, on my way.", 
        "He was standing in America though", 
        "Lol those scrubs. They might even know what gazelles are!", 
        "North America Motherfuckers!!!", 
        "Nate is more natural than Nick in front of a mic, maybe Nate can help Nick out.", 
        "Nick is more raw. Different qualities ", 
        "He's receiving positive light though, I think it's easier to come off as natural and chilled when you're being interviewed for the reasons Nate currently is.", 
        "They are what they are. ", 
        "Nick could also help Nate out at being more articulate. Nate sort of mumbles his words. They kind of compliment each other. ", 
        "I really hope Nate has always mumbled  that much/in that way and isn't showing facepunching symptoms...", 
        "I was just thinking the same thing.", 
        "As far back as I can remember, yeah.  I always thought both of them had a bit of a mild speech impediment.   Nate doesn't seem like he's gone 'downhill' as far as speech or comprehension,  From what I've seen/heard he's always talked like that.", 
        "That's great to hear :)\n\nHe's a bit jacked in the face in this interview, which can't help, but I barely remember him on TUF.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/aryI7VI.gif", 
        "I love that this gif is enjoying a resurgence.", 
        "I see it every single week. It never died. ", 
        "Really glad Nate's trying to get some practice with this. Like he alluded to himself, there's a difference in the way McGregor and he have been \"pushed\" by the UFC historically and I think that comes down to their willingness to do these sort of marketing/press gigs.\n\n\n\nIn any business, the easiest way to set you apart from your peers when you're really all on the same level is soft skills.\n\nThe more practice Nate gets, the sooner he (and hopefully Nick) will realize that:\n\n1. He doesn't have to be a sellout to promote himself, and there are ways to bring out his personality and say what he wants to say without compromising his values (e.g. keeping his future opponents guessing).\n\n2. There are causes he cares about that he can really use these opportunities to promote, like what martial arts did for him as a kid and how he's trying to pay that forward by teaching BJJ.\n", 
        "My thoughts exactly.", 
        "ufc champ nate diaz!", 
        "This isn't the first time post 196 either. Maybe the media really thought there was a McGregor belt instated.", 
        "0:08 /r/GirlsMirin ", 
        "ohh yes good spot", 
        "It's funny how the word \"retire\" is a dirty offensive word to most fighters but Nick and Nate seem like they love the sport but dream of early retirement.", 
        "Pretty sure Nick doesn't like fighting", 
        "He's said that in the past.  He's got a long interview with Ariel as well, where he goes on about all kinds of shit.", 
        "I'm not sure. Nick likes saying things like \"You have to love fighting so much you hate it.\" Does he love it or hate it? Who knows? It's probably both.", 
        "Fighting is love. Fighting is hate. Fighting is feeling good. Fighting is pain. Fighting is life. Fight is death. \n\nFighting can be the greatest feeling on earth, and fighting can be the worst thing on earth. \n\nI don't think anything on earth embodies both sides of the coin better then fighting. \n\nMost people did not grow up fighting, so they can't really understand. But for those of us who did... it is a special kind of demon. ", 
        "Dude you are just way too deep for me. I grew up fist fighting my way through childhood (no structured martial arts) and it was more like baseball or kickball just an excuse to compete. \n\nI'm sure there are others that get what you're saying and for them and you, my respect.", 
        "He's said he doesn't like that he has to beat people up. He's a non violent guy outside of mma, but its his most viable career choice, so he does it. He would rather do triathlons if it paid more.", 
        "They've both been pretty upfront about being in it for the checks, right?  Shame he got no win bonus.  I guess $500k isn't so bad when you didn't pay for a camp, though...", 
        "Another 100,000 for fight of the night and sub of the night. He also got ppv money", 
        "I heard (rumors) that he also has a piece of the ppv. Dana also said he made several million dollars so I'm thinking his payday is fatter than we know.", 
        "I hope he doesn't retire, he's so fun to watch and the sport needs more people like him", 
        "Nate \"Champ\" Diaz", 
        "Good for Nate. He's handling these media obligations so much better than Nick.", 
        "what a fucking crazy time to be alive", 
        "Nick starting beef with Bieber and Drake. What a time to be alive. ", 
        "Nick?", 
        "Oops", 
        "Then dismissing them as bandwagon jumpers.", 
        "How could you not be happy for Nate? ", 
        "Crazy to think that a single fight could change his life so much. He's being pushed by the media like Holly after beating Ronda.", 
        "That's one of the things about having \"unbeatable\" megastars this big in MMA. They get so much coverage and attention that when somebody does beat them they become a reasonably well known too.", 
        "good grief she is hot.\n\nalso, great to see nate smiling and having fun.", 
        "Nate's actually pretty damn good with these interviews and the media.  Good for him, I'm definitely happy for the dude.  I'm not sure Nick would handle all of this quite as well.", 
        "Nate is Americas new sweet heart.", 
        "The girl in the middle behind them is so not into it the whole time Nate is talking. Then she straight up leaves when he talks about slapping Bieber. ", 
        "Someone prob farted in her face", 
        "The mainstream media is so bad at covering this shit. \"UFC Champ Nate Diaz\"... sigh.", 
        "uh he is champ though, he won the Mcgregor belt.", 
        "Maybe they just took Nate seriously from the Megan Olivi interview where he said was the 145 pound champ now.", 
        "Anyone got the full interview?", 
        "That is one of the hottest women ever what the fcuk", 
        "What did Drakes bitch ass say about the fight?", 
        "He posted some go mcgregor shit on Instagram before the fight ", 
        "What the fuck is this? Sexy ass hell host lady channel?", 
        "Watch Nate on Ellen next week. ", 
        "Charlie Rose!", 
        "Inside Slappers Studio!", 
        "The UFC rly should make the Conor money belt for Diaz since every fucking random news site is saying Nate Diaz is a UFC champ, im not sure if they are ignorant or they just dont care and clickbait as much as possible with no integrity", 
        "Nate getting the Holly Holm treatment (post Rousey fight).", 
        "the way he moves and just doesnt give a fuck reminds me of the good old days with Chuck", 
        "Would play touch-butt with this dime piece.", 
        "sounds like a trump supporter ", 
        "/r/The_Donald ", 
        "Awesome,  love seeing him get this exposure ", 
        "Their babies would blonde sexy bitch slapping gangsters.", 
        "It's nice to see the UFC investing more in promoting Diaz. Absolutely hilarious to see him in these mainstream media situations. ", 
        "Can we ensure that from now on Nate is only interviewed by scantily clad blondes. ", 
        "The tits on that journalist slowly harden after making eye contact with Nate", 
        "Never seen nate so happy. This is amazing for him.", 
        "Man, he's doing great in the spotlight. Really coming into his own, out from his brothers shadow and a real likable dude. ", 
        "Wow, I'm so freaking happy for the Diaz brothers right now. Get that payoff. ", 
        "I'm loving PR Nate. He's funny.", 
        "This is so surreal. Happy for Nate. \n\nY'all are gonna hate me for saying this but Conor kinda did \"change his bum life\" which is hilarious, albeit not in the way that I think Conor expected. Here's to hoping Nate can keep riding the momentum and notch a few more wins", 
        "Na-than! my man. ", 
        "Nate's gone hollywood and shit.", 
        "rematch? hellz yeah, get paid more than all your previous fights combined", 
        "Oh Nate, my love hate passion for you will never die. ", 
        "I thought he was gonna smack her exposed cleavage. Disappointing.", 
        "I love that Nate is becoming a superstar. Its weird, but feels so right.", 
        "Man, i'm so happy to see Nate get a share of the spotlight. Him and Nick deserve it.", 
        "Reading between the lines he means if he sees the Beebs he wont fuck his ass up. Maybe.", 
        "spot the bieber fan http://i.imgur.com/QzSeF59.jpg", 
        "That black guy? Hopefully it's not too late to say sorry", 
        "it's amazing how many people think nate diaz is a champ now. though in all fairness, it did feel like a championship bout.", 
        "1) She's hot a fuck\n\n2) She totally set him up to say 'I wasn't suprised motherfuckers' but he wasn't allowed to... That's cruel. ", 
        "that dress", 
        "The title says \"UFC champion Nate Diaz addresses Justin Bieber and rumors of retirement\"  or something like that. \n\nObviously Nate is not a champion, so that is wrong.  But he never addressed anything about retirement in this video, and I noticed that at the end she said something about a title fight and he said that he would be interested and she said \"go out on top?\"   and he said \"Yeah\"  and laughed. \n\n\nDid they talk about him retiring before the video started?   Why did she say \"go out on top\"? ", 
        ">But he never addressed anything about retirement in this video...\n\nWatch the last nine seconds of the video again. ", 
        "He won't retire. He's finally making the big money. ", 
        "I don't remember Nate talking like that when he was younger.  Is he punch drunk?\n\n[tuf interview](http://youtu.be/he7hi9mfdlM)", 
        "He sounds the same to me. I think he has a speech impediment. ", 
        "Sounds about the same", 
        "I definitely hear more **don't give a fuck** in his voice now.", 
        "I had a speech impediment when I was younger - and it got amplified when I was nervous, or trying to correct it in public. I'm going to guess Nate's a bit the same - he seems way more confident and clear in videos where he's just talking with a few people at a gym...or in earlier press conferences with less pressure / audience.\n\nIn my non-scientific opinion, just from my own experience, he's been talking that way his whole life. If that's the case, and he wanted to correct it, it would take years. I equate it to learning how to write with your opposite hand. Muscle memory - especially shit you learned as a kid - takes fucking forever to correct.", 
        "The dude is a notorious stoner. He is probably high as fuck on that TV show.", 
        "That's probably it. ", 
        "he speaks the same, the difference being he's on EXTRA vs. a more natural environment to him at his job", 
        "No one even going to mention it says UFC Champ?", 
        "champ lol. Good for Nate though. All that bitching, not fighting, and waiting out for big fights finally paid off.", 
        "I'm not a doctor but I think you should get checked for Hypernatremia. It appears that the sodium levels in your blood are way too high.", 
        "Not even salty lol (probably the best response I've seen on r/mma so far haha) but it is true. Nate waited a year after his Maynard fight and then another year after RDA. He's super lucky that Dana clearly did think he was a 'needle mover' after all.", 
        "He has been fighting longer than the last couple years bro", 
        "Yeah and before the last couple years he got headkicked to oblivion by Josh Thompson and dominated by Bendo for the title.", 
        "But he also didn't for more of that time before ", 
        "There goes that hypernatremia again. (copywrite /u/DragoonDirk)", 
        "How ironic are the jabs at casual supporters at the beginning considering this piece of shit outlet just stuck the word 'champ' with Nate's name. ", 
        "Don't get me wrong,  I like Nate.   It's taken a while but over time he has won me over.   I also think he is pretty funny and smarter than sounds sometimes.   With that being said,  that appearance just erased a couple years of effort trying to change the general public's perception of the sport.", 
        "What the hell are you talking about? That was the opposite of what you'd expect from a Diaz interview. Nate hasn't been that outspoken and professional sounding in years.", 
        "Gtfo of town, he was laughing everyone knows its a joke. Plus did you forget that it is prize fighting?", 
        "Ouch, I guess that's why you don't see cage jumps when there isn't a finish. ", 
        "She screamed really loud right after the horn blew too.... before she jumped on the cage", 
        "Anderson Silva did it...", 
        "To be fair Bisping was out cold. ", 
        "No he wasn't. ", 
        "yes he was-ish. ", 
        "Seems like many people here seem to think that just because he didn't fall face first into a limp puddle on the ground, that he was fine. \n\nUFC rules clearly state that if a fighter cannot intelligently defend themselves at any time, fight is over. If the round had not ended at the precise moment it did and Silva had time to throw one more strike, there is no way in hell he could have defended it. It's a technicality that it was not an official KO, but Bispings body suffered the effects of a KO none the less. \n\n\"was-ish\" is the perfect description of how KO'd he was. \n", 
        "looked like a finish to me.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "diaz brothers are so cool", 
        "He was finished dont listen to these people haha", 
        "Haha a sea of salt I love this sub.", 
        "Jesus arnt we done with this conversation? I'm not trying to be rude but dude if you have a problem with that call then you need to read the rules. Same thing happened in Aldo V Mendes or do you only watch Silva fights?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">Still finished imo. If the ref is trying to tell both fighters the fight is still on\n\npick one. \n\nthe fighters dont decide when its over. the ref does. he is the guy in charge. the refs opinion is the only one that matters.\n\nif the ref is saying the fight is on, a celebrating fighter is making a mistake by celebrating, period. if the other guy cant stand, you keep pounding him until the ref clearly calls it done. Mike Tyson was notorious for this. he could knock a guy out cold, and give him another one or two on his way down to the mat. it looks dirty, but its not. he always calmly stopped and stepped away once the ref called it.", 
        "For sure lost consciousness. The guy got a chair where he fell cause he couldnt walk to his corner. Your legs dont become uncontrollable jelly when you just eat a hard shot.", 
        "She clearly lost too. ", 
        "Yeah I was so confused when she freaked out like she had won it, there was NO way she won. I think it was 30-27, 30-27, 29-28 for Frey.", 
        "Something like that, and you can see Frey with the smirk as they're reading off the scorecards, she knows she won. Was a good fight too ", 
        "probably her team told her she was 2-0 or whatever", 
        "Who was cornering her? Edmund? ", 
        "maybe she was just so excited she made it to the end. ", 
        "The way the smile slowly fades away from her face. Hello darkness my old friend....", 
        "This. I was literally expecting a headkick coming in from the edge of the frame.", 
        "heh kim winslow looks a little less.... zombie like", 
        "Zombie-esque in her striking here, Joe. You could really say she's the Michael Jordan of not looking bored out of her mind. Spayka da Portgugaysa.", 
        "They gave her some happy pills", 
        "Less zombie and more Big Bird.", 
        "Goddammit Dee you bitch! ", 
        "Usada strikes again ", 
        "[Credit](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4a1iyb/official_invicta_fc_16_hamasaki_vs_brown/d0wsrrt) to /u/roycegretzky for the title.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Watching this gif makes me happy in ways i cant explain ", 
        "Sorry lady, you didn't win the [beauty pageant](http://imgur.com/4x6Z0vU). ", 
        "Still a great night!", 
        "Dont take it against the ladies!", 
        "The look on her face afterwards..", 
        "Deserving of a slow motion close up. ", 
        "Hello darkness my old friend", 
        "I was watching her closely to see if she would have a surprised reaction on her face when they announced the winner. I thought the intense celebration came about because she was just feeling like it was a good fight/happy she made it to the end? Nope.", 
        "It's the best how her coach or corner man was trying to get her off the cage immediately. Cringey yet beautiful.", 
        "What happened in the fight?  Was she robbed?  Was it razor thin?", 
        "Not at all, she clearly lost but decided to celebrate like crazy for some reason.\n\nEdit: just saw this gif posted, this is the end of the second round; first round she lost too so she was pretty much done unless she got a finish, which she didn't.\n\nhttp://gfycat.com/CheeryFrenchJunco", 
        "Damn! Lotta power in that left hand!", 
        "Tiburcio is super high energy win or lose lol I expect overreactions from her", 
        "Frey is one of the few women MMA fighters I've ever seen deliver a straight, no-bullshit standing KO to another fighter. She's still a little stiff for my tastes, but otherwise she seems to be evolving nicely. I have a suspicion she hasn't been made that last little jump in fluidity because of the time demands from her full time job as a medical professional. \n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFKrX7BYy_Y", 
        "Holm head kicked someone unconscious I believe.", 
        "Wow - hard shots! Thx!\n\n\nCool moment at the end too, looking over in concern for her opponent as the initial strains of Sabbath's \"Iron Man\" come in.", 
        "Kim looks like she knows what is coming.", 
        "Tiburcio [confused](http://i.imgur.com/dLfPsSw.png) the hell out of me when she did that. Frey clearly won the fight to me. Tiburcio's smile dropping when she heard two 30-27's was kinda funny.", 
        "/r/prematurecelebration", 
        "In case you think he's joking: I clicked, that is a real sub. So much cringe.", 
        "She took the loss well though", 
        "Congrats on Frey - Good skills, good looks.", 
        "She must have thought the referee stopped the fight for her, and not that the round ended.\n\nIt doesn't make sense otherwise.", 
        "Herica was a savage against Waterson...maybe she lost motivation after that close loss to Hamasaki ", 
        "I still don't understand how she was so convinced she won that fight at the end ", 
        "The fact Kim Winslow is still a referee of anything but the Lego League of Sports is a fucking travesty against humanity.\n\n", 
        "I wouldn't want Winslow protecting me from Satan's pointy blocks.", 
        "When the first in-competition death occurs in the Pool Noodle Touchbutt Championship, it will be due to Kim Winslows negligence. ", 
        "Someone make this same exact gif for the Silva Bisping fight. ", 
        "How's that referee gotten? I remember way back when she started popping up in UFC or SF shows and she would just be awful, then all of a sudden she pretty much disappeared from the big leauges.", 
        "Seemed to do fine to me. She gets shit on in this sub every time she pops up in a thread but to be honest I don't think she's bad at all. She made some bad calls earlier in her career, sure, but I think she's improved with experience. I see her on the smaller events from time to time and I don't recall thinking she was any worse than the other refs. People just like to pick on her I guess.", 
        "Good for her! I always tought she was just a victim of circumnstance, she was put in very high level fights she had no business officiating and made some pretty bad mistakes.\n\nIm glad that after the rought start she stayed strong and kept going after what she clearly likes doing, after all its not like being a ref in MMA is an easy gig or financially motivating.", 
        "Herb Dean makes $2500 a night. ", 
        "....why are you repeating my point? Or do you find 2 grand enough of a financial motivation to get into refereeing mixed martial arts?", 
        "$2.5k a day. What else is he gonna do the other 29 days in a month? 2 UFC events a month and he's at $5k/month = $60k/year and not have to work the other 28 days per month. That's a good deal", 
        "Yeah, we got different standards", 
        "[I still can't believe she didn't get fired after this call.](http://www.mmamania.com/2012/6/4/3063656/ufc-bantamweight-john-albert-discusses-kim-winslow-referee) That fighter was so pissed after that fight, and for good reason. Then there was the Tate/Zigano fight where she allegedly stopped the fight because Tate was bleeding too much for her liking. \n\nHey, good on her for sticking with something she's clearly awful at, and I'm glad to hear she's getting better, but she should definitely not be officiating at the highest level of the sport in any capacity.", 
        "I don't disagree. I'd only say she's adequate for minor league officiating and I believe she has gotten better with experience. I think very few refs are good enough, and consistently so, to be used as referees in the UFC. I feel the same way about Steve and Dan - the majority of their fights they do just fine, but they slip up often enough that I don't like seeing them work UFC events.\n\nThat said, there are also some refs I've seen in the smaller leagues on AXS that were undoubtedly in a class below Kim, Steve and Dan.", 
        "God that was so satisfying to watch.  \n  \nFuck that obnoxious girl in the red", 
        "> Fuck that obnoxious girl in the red\n\nTried.  \nDick stuck in cage door.\n\nPlz advise", 
        "Don't listen to Reddit comments?", 
        "Agreed.", 
        "I love the smile on the refs face as she raises blues hand", 
        "How tall is the ref?  Holy crap,  she towers over everyone ", 
        "5'4\"", 
        "are the fighters tiny or is the ref a giant?!", 
        "[Herica Tiburcio](http://www.sherdog.com/fighter/Herica-Tiburcio-82170), the fighter who celebrates prematurely, is 4'11\".\n\n", 
        "Palhares-like in her execution.", 
        "/r/cringe\n", 
        "I had a guy do this... while we were sparring.", 
        "Lol", 
        "i wasnt expecting them to both be smaller than 5 Ft", 
        "I wonder what happened here. I assume she was winning at the end of the fight... so assumed she won the entire fight?", 
        "Joanie Hendricks.", 
        "lol wasn't even a split decision it was unanimous! ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "They have score cards... Can't just rewrite the scores!", 
        "The look on her face. Was orcs bad decision. I don't watch invicta. ", 
        "Nah, Frey won that fight", 
        "I am surprised, motherfuckers. ", 
        "Why do Brazilians often over-celebrate even when they clearly lose?  Just saw this happen with a Brazilian in boxing last week too.  I think there's some cultural difference there because it seems to be fairly common with them. ", 
        "r/cringe ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "It is. r/mma will always downvote that opinion but it's true ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I just say that in every thread that is related to Wmma", 
        "Holy shit that McGregor voice is spot on.\n\n", 
        "The guy is Irish, that's why. ", 
        "yeah exactly. The Diaz one is good definetely but the McGregor one is fucking spot on, my gawd. ", 
        "When he did the laugh I lost it.", 
        "Yeah, I thought it was much better than Nate.", 
        "He was definitely using the 'fuck you' as a bit of a crutch. It's easier to go off of things that Nate actually said at the press conference than to go off the books, like he did with McGregor", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Ouch. Yeah, you're right, though. Seeing him get all agitated and blubbery on CNBC was hilarious! \"What is this, the money show?\" B'duhhh", 
        "It's true but goddam that was cold Bro. Years of taking punches definitely did take its toll on him but he's still a ninja.", 
        "I think the speech impediment and general rhetoric of his has always been that way,  thankfully not related to concussions ", 
        "Well, it's not like you need a college degree to succeed in his profession. ", 
        "**FUCK YOU**", 
        "MOTHERFUCKER", 
        "Yeah, I was actually disappointed when we came to Nate because the Conor one was so good but the longer we went the better the Nate one seemed to become too. ", 
        "\"Ninja shit\" was hilarious", 
        "he definitely had the cadence and the mannerisms, but Nate's voice is a tad higher and with a slight lisp.", 
        "The Nate one didn't seem that great at first but when I closed my eyes it was very easy to picture Nate talking. ", 
        "This exactly, I thought conor was so good and after closing my eyes Nate voice was pretty good.", 
        "Closed my eyes too. Weird.", 
        "the laugh.", 
        "The part that got me was when he liked the coffee, that was McGregor 400%", 
        "I thought the same, especially the part about the first round, haha.", 
        "Nate's \"let's fight\" at 1:10 was perfect", 
        "Daaamn haha. The 'yeh' at the end of sentences was spot on!", 
        "Good Nate impression. Unbelieveble Conor impression. I'm not sure Conor sounds as much like himself as this guy does.", 
        "The guy's name is Al Foran, he's brilliant. I love [this prank call](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YCfFyRIB_h0) where he pretends to be McGregor when he's talking to an employee from Louis Copeland. ", 
        "> You in Dicey's looking for some Aldo gash\n\nLOL", 
        "that mcregor is 100% spot on...damn. ", 
        "[Here's an older one of him](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RIStcoGrDxY). I was blown away by the first back then, but he even seems to have improved in this one!", 
        "He's improved a lot since then. That's not a very good impression. ", 
        "A little to much Eastern European in his original but the new is 100%. Much improvement. ", 
        "Is he middle eastern?", 
        "That's awesome, putting both Prebek and TTTHS to shame", 
        "Seriously, TTHS should get this guy to voice McGregor. I don't know if it's passable to Americans, but his \"Irish\" accent sounds just like an American imitating an Irish accent.", 
        "Literally every video of his has a disclaimer at the beginning saying his impressions are shitty. He's going for the comedic aspect, not the voice acting talent aspect. His joe lauzon impression is hilarious, he does a Boston asshole accent, but it sounds nothing like joe", 
        "Ok man I get you!", 
        "I don't mean to be a dick, but I get defensive about TTHS, I eat that shit up. You know how us MMA fans are, 'fuck you if you have a different opinion that is also considerably valid'", 
        "Oh no don't get me wrong, I love TTHS too! It's just I think it'd be amazing if that guy could voice McGregor since he's got a near 100% spot on impression of him. Its just a small thing tho, not like I'm gonna stop watching or anything haha", 
        "FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, IT'S \"TRIPLE T-HS\"!!! WHY ARE ALL YOU BOZOS IN THIS THREAD LEAVING OUT THE THIRD T???\n\nokay self, calm down, crisis averted...phew", 
        "I don't think Tommy is too concerned with the voices being spot on. Do you think his French-Canadian accent sounds passable? Most of the voices are that way.", 
        "Tbh his last GSP impression was hilarious.", 
        "Yeah, you've got a point", 
        "Prebek's Nick and Nate are the stuff of legends.", 
        "That's not hard to do", 
        "Tbf TTH is shite", 
        "He has some hilarious moments", 
        "His Anderson, Diaz bros, Vitor, and GSP are hilarious", 
        "Idk I really like tths impressions of both diaz bros.  FINALLY GOT THAT GOOFY SHIRT MONEY MOTHER FUCKER WUT!", 
        "> Prebek\n\nDid he even mention Conor McGregor? I feel like he left before Conor became big", 
        "What even happened to him?", 
        "Nobody donated to his kickstarter. He was asking for $6000.", 
        "Life", 
        "This was great. I wish he would have done the \"touch butt in the park\" line.", 
        "This guy has been doing a great McGregor impression for a while now, but I thought his Nate impression was really good given that he probably only tried it a couple of weeks ago.", 
        "The Nate impression is a little lacking, imo but the McG one is high quality.", 
        "Nailed it!", 
        "His voice going up describing Nate's coffee was perfect.", 
        "this guy is more Conor than Conor", 
        "Wow, this is awesome! Specially McGregor's voice.\n\nI want **mawr**!! Can you make this a regular series... pretty please? :) Mc Gregor and Diaz going at it... Oh, that would be so good!...", 
        "[Here is one where he pranks one of McGregor's suit tailors](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YCfFyRIB_h0)", 
        "this one is signicantly better IMO ", 
        "close your eyes", 
        "haha horrible nate impression", 
        "He doesn't give a fuuuuuuuck.", 
        "He doesn't give a fooook either! ", 
        "that was great", 
        "This guy exemplifies the pure comedic gold in the exchanges between these two.  Conor's smug attitude against the annoyed stoner attitude of Nathan's is such an hilariously and somehow endearing exchange.  The coffee at the end really tied this all together.  Fucking awesome.", 
        "The McGregor is near perfect but the Nate Diaz isn't close at all", 
        "Hard to beat [this impression of Nate.](https://youtu.be/ly9gBhpmphM?t=1133)", 
        "Well OPs did for sure.  These aren't that great.", 
        "Man how does he do it ", 
        "Probably by being irish, mainly.", 
        "Bouvet\u00f8ya? Lmao.", 
        "He's pretty damn good", 
        "had me rollin", 
        "I lost it when he said you make pretty good coffee. ", 
        "I refuse to believe that isn't actually McGregor's voice. What trickery is this!? ", 
        "Dude had me in tears by the first back then, but he even mention Conor McGregor?", 
        "Wow, I want to see more of this guy, he nailed it.", 
        "Incorrectly titled. That's not a good impression, that's a GREAT impression! Conor voice is uncanny", 
        "The nate impression was off. Too slow. ", 
        "The lisp was on point though ", 
        "This needs an aftermath version.", 
        "Nate's impression wasn't that good but his Conor impression was not just good, rather PERFECT! Blown away, his improved over the  suit tailor's prank call one that I've watched.", 
        "Unbelievable... This dude should be monetizing that ability to imitate. ", 
        "Dude that was sick", 
        "You buuuuhhhhm", 
        "good mcgregor impression, terrible nate impression. ", 
        "the Nate cadence is way off, but the sound is legit", 
        "He's got the Nate mannerisms down but not that impression. Conor is bloody spot on though, impressive", 
        "if you close your eyes and listen to the voices, it's perfect!", 
        "Sounded spot on after the beginning McGregor clip to be accurate.", 
        "this tickles my fancy", 
        "The cadence on his nate is a little too slow", 
        "McGregor was good. Nate was a bit too slow.", 
        "Dude had me in tears by the end of it!", 
        "Good Conor impression.  Decent Nate impression", 
        "Was that really \"good\"?", 
        "Fucking epic with McGregor. I drink in an Irish pub, have watched many of McGregor's pressers, and have done voices in the past, and I'm nowhere close to that. ", 
        "Yeah, I thought it was very easy to picture Nate talking.", 
        "This would be perfect with an unexpected Walt Jr. ninja edit.", 
        "His Conor is really excellent. His Nate could use some work though. ", 
        "thats blading brilliant /s", 
        "conor's got himself a good woman", 
        "Hate to see sad families, but it looked like Dee took it worse than Conor. ", 
        "Even Conor said he hates seeing the reactions of losses", 
        "It keeps being said but I'm saying it again. But conor took that L like a fucking man, Ronda needs to take notes on how to lose with class", 
        "I agree, but Rhonda getting outclassed for 2 rounds and getting KTFO didn't not help her cause...", 
        "Its different with ronda. It was her first loss ever in mma. When conor lost first time he didnt return for months ", 
        "and this was conor's first UFC loss. theres really no explaining the pisspoor way Ronda handled the loss other than shes just a VERY sore loser", 
        "It doesn't matter, ufc or not. Compare it to the first loss ever instead which is more accurate. Conor went away for months without training.\n\nConor is more used to losing than ronda. Thats it ", 
        "Okay. Ronda didnt just go away for months without training. She refused to do interviews, had her publicist threaten to leave shows if the loss was brought up. Threatened retirement. Threatened suicide. Ect.", 
        "Yeah but still, mcgregor didnt have that pressure on him when he got his first loss. Ofcourse it's tougher for ronda.\n\nYou think like a child tbh. atleast try to get into their position for once", 
        "Kind of silly. Ronda has lost before. It wasn't the first time she ever lost in her life. She loss some heartbreaking matches in Judo. Her first fight was in 2011, Conor hadn't lost since 2010 and in a much smaller organization, on a much smaller stage. Calling someone a child for sharing a different opinion is, well, childish. At the end of the day, they are two different people and I'm quite glad different people react differently to \"similar\" circumstances. This world would be boring if everyone just reacted in the way they were \"supposed to.\" ", 
        "no it wasnt but in judo she didnt lose after dominating for several years. The first loss after being unbeaten is always tougher than losing some here and there", 
        "There's so many factors you are missing. Both of these people have tasted defeat, both of these people have been bested in training, both of these people were undefeated for over 3 years. You seem to think it's a major difference in situation, when the major difference is personality. These are two different people, who reacted in two different ways. So many factors go into why they reacted differently and some of it is situational, but it is a relatively smaller factor in the grand scheme of things. Ronda has every right to feel the way she did afterwards and Conor has the same. People are entitled to their feelings and it's impossible for someone to be a high enough authority to judge those feelings as wrong. To say it comes down to a guy losing a year before the other person started is not correct. ", 
        "still. conor didnt react much different in his first defeat. Im sure ronda will take defeat better once she gets through the first just like conor did", 
        "THE HEARTBREAK CAM, BROUGHT TO YOU BY BUD LIGHT.  /Goldberg", 
        "I didn't know how sad I was about this loss until I seen Dee crying like that", 
        "what sicko enjoys this", 
        "The amount of shitposts with 100s of upvotes implies a lot.", 
        "Excellent :D", 
        "LoL", 
        "How can there be no corner footage? Cmon.. I want to watch Ido and Kavanagh make the O face, family gonna react like a family.", 
        "Seriously though. The UFC released backstage footage of Aldo in the locker room crying and cornercam footage of him for his loss. The won't even show his corner camera for this loss? Stuff like that just cements how much the UFC had it out for Aldo.", 
        "Good video but I doubt anyone will let go of the circle jerk here and actually watch it.", 
        "I've never understood the circle-jerk to begin with, TJ left a camp with no head coach to go train with the guy who drastically improved his striking and helped him win a word title. Oh, and the gym is paying him to train there as well. He made a logical decision in his best interest. Could he have done this a bit more tactfully and left TAM on good terms? Yeah, he could have. At the end of the day, he did what he thought was right for his career and family. There is nothing wrong with that. ", 
        "Because memes. And yeah Bang is a bit crazy but I don't think anyone can deny he's an outstanding striking coach", 
        "Maybe instead of showing people how to slap someone they should work on being able to hit Dominick Cruz... ", 
        "Landed more total strikes than Cruz and hit Cruz more than anyone ever has. Perhaps he should work on not getting pointscored by insignificant TDs instead.", 
        "what are talking about man, he landed 8 more strikes then cruz, but did less damage, and he got taken down. idk if you know but getting taken down doesnt feel good either. people act like take downs do nothing to you. ", 
        "He certainly didnt do more damage. The TDs scored yes, i have Cruz the fight based on those only.", 
        "WTF are you talking about http://www.fightmetric.com/event-details/c6becb722706c7d8\n", 
        "Sig strikes 112 Cruz / 109 TJ. Total strikes landed 122 Cruz / 130 TJ. Thx for posting the link for me.", 
        "So Cruz landed more significant strikes and more TD's. That's all I need. Quit nuthugging.", 
        "A Significant strike is merely a strike thrown at range.  ", 
        "No, it isn't. It's a strike that is 'significant' or does damage. What are you on about?", 
        "> Significant strike is merely a strike thrown\n\nSignificant strikes are so subjective it is such a stupid thing to discuss, everyone has a different definition. They could be any strike that has to potential to do damage or strikes that actually connect. A soft jab to the face or and huge right hand that drops an opponent can both be considered significant strikes. There is no set definition which is why arguing over them is a waste of time.", 
        ">That's all I need.\n\n\nBut it's not all the rules need. Telltale sign of a computer nerd judge = use fightmetric for scoring.", 
        "I also saw the fight, and Dillashaw whiff at thin air for three rounds while being thrown on his back every time he threw one of his headkicks. He only found success when he targeted Cruz's bad leg in round 4, which is pretty pathetic. Cruz 3-2.", 
        "There are valid arguments for scoring the fight for either fighter.  Nothing you've said even remotely approaches one of them.", 
        "Alright synth-strider see you in the next thread.", 
        "Loooool not sure who that is but goodbye, nice to prove you wrong.", 
        ">nice to prove you wrong.\n\n\nEverything i said in this thread has been proven with evidence. Aside from calling you by your old username that is.", 
        "Yup.  That's him, that guy had an unabashed love affair for Romero and Lombard (Cubans).\n\nHe should have gone with a more unassuming smurf like \"EastCoastFreestyleRapLegend\" or some shit.", 
        "I never understood fans criticizing fighters and calling them pathetic. you probably will never come close to accomplish what dillashaw has so why you talking shit? I hate sport fans ", 
        "I mean, he did it over 100 times in their fight.  2 judges had reasonable scores for Cruz and TJ, and Tony Weeks turned in one of the worst cards I've ever seen in favor of Cruz.  With a 3rd judge who isn't either an idiot or drunk, it's entirely possible TJ wins that fight.  ", 
        "Wasn't a lot of detail there. \n\nThis is a really thorough explanation by Jack Slack. \n\n http://m.fightland.vice.com/blog/the-stockton-slap-why-slapping-is-the-new-punching", 
        "Where is your Belt TJ? Conor still has his", 
        "The only good part of this is TJ holding his hands up trying to look like Nate. He ends up looking more like a leprechaun. ", 
        "Sssssssssstockton ssssssssssssslap", 
        "I could watch this fight everyday and it still would never get old", 
        "I never really cared much for the Diaz brothers. I knew they had Chins better than anyone but before the Connor fight, I started to get hyped. I thought it was awesome that these guys who have been such a main stay in the mma world, I had to cheer for Diaz to beat Connor. When he did, I was so excited for the dude and have gained such an immense amount of respect for the guy. Experience trumps anything Connor had to offer. Nothing but respect for these guys love for their art and heart. ", 
        "I could watch Fedor vs Randleman a few times.", 
        "I watched Diaz Gomi last night for the hell of it, fucking classic.", 
        "Just look at Paul Daley's face at 5:49, he's done. Amazing heart and skill by Nick to finish him in such crazy round.", 
        ">I could watch this fight everyday and it still would never get old\n\nI watched this fight already about 100 times. ", 
        "Hehe, same here. It has probably been posted a thousand times already, but with the resurgence of the Diaz brothers' popularity, I figured it was time again.", 
        "Diaz is so hot right now.", 
        "Nates gonna stay here a bit because he's been programmed to assassinate the prime minister of micronesia", 
        "Good call, the only equal for greatest \"one-round\" fight is Browne-Arlovski.", 
        "Sanchez vs Guida? They had multiple \"best round\" in one fight!", 
        "Hughes-Trigg 2??? ", 
        "Fedor vs Herring imo", 
        "Was that the one where fedor is dropped directly on his head but bounces it into an armbar somehow?", 
        "No, that was Gary Goodridge (which was also pretty spectacular).", 
        "That's Fedor against, the late, Kevin Randleman.  \nHerring was Fedors 2nd PRIDE fight and was a 10 minute beatdown.  \nhttp://3.bp.blogspot.com/-pEAMFdgHsak/VJ-McHgG8wI/AAAAAAACYeQ/NkCUf6HW_8M/s1600/o.gif", 
        "I can't think of any other one round all time classics beyond these two. Barry-Kongo? ", 
        "Barry-Kongo is the only fight that will give you brain damage just by watching it.", 
        "?? 1 minute of fighting is all I see here ..", 
        "Every tike, this fight makes me want to jump up out of my seat.", 
        "I would humbly argue: [Don Frye vs Yoshihiro Takayama] (https://vimeo.com/101664722)", 
        "Frye and Severn should have had a show, called Don & Dan,  where they talk about mustaches and beat up Communists.", 
        "Imagine if MMA had scoring for self defence. That fight would have ended a draw, 0-0.", 
        "I forgot how fucking giant Frye's traps were.  Holy shit.  I feel like I would have elevated testosterone if I touched his sweat.", 
        "Griffin-Bonnar is another one. For a different reason though", 
        "Mark Hunt v. Ray Sefo in K-1. \n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPjmGNODnP0", 
        "For the lazy https://vimeo.com/50533972\n", 
        "What the in the earth did I just watch", 
        "It was even crazier live, I was screaming at the ref through my tv the whole time Kongo was fucked then BAM shut me the fuck up", 
        "That was much more one sided though. ", 
        "Truth.", 
        "This was much more high skilled, the level of striking and just mma taking place is beyond Browne and Andre.", 
        "Good brawls like this are just as much a testament for the refs as it is the fighters. This clip is a great example of an amazing 1 round fight where 3 people showcased their talent!", 
        "One of the best rounds of all time.", 
        "#FREEDIAZ\n\n", 
        "Never gets old.. This will be part of Nick's legend forever ", 
        "Goddamn that was crazy.", 
        "I will never not upvote this fight. It's the first fight I show people when I want to introduce them to Nick Diaz. \n\nEdit - If you haven't seen it, here is Dana White's reaction to watching this as he's sitting cageside: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HlbcOuT8gTM", 
        "Dana definitely taking a page out of Tourettes Gu- SHIT", 
        "I hate on dana way too much. Thanks for posting this.", 
        "Fuck, that body shot sounds even nastier in that Dana vid.", 
        "He makes a good argument that he's the best *fighter* in the world. Lots of guys like to play it safe, outscore their opponent, ride their opponent around and edge-out safe victories. Not Diaz. Not either Diaz. They're here to fight, motherfucker. ", 
        "If fights had no time limits and just went until there was a winner nick diaz would never lose ", 
        "Seriously though, look at his record, his only loss that he was finished was his 5th pro fight, then a year later he came back and finished that guy in the rematch. Great fighter that has always been underrated imo.", 
        "I love this ", 
        "Why was Dana there?", 
        "This was after the UFC had bought strikeforce ", 
        "People can say what they want about DW, but the guy loves the sport.", 
        "Dana was definitely impressed with his performance", 
        "Holy shit! ", 
        "is that cruz behind them in the metal mulisha shirt?", 
        "Yessir", 
        "Shut up Sage.", 
        "This was the night I became a Diaz fan. When he got dropped, and elected to still get up and bang with Daley despite his obvious superiority on the ground I knew exactly what sort of warrior he was. Went in to this a Daley fan, came out a Diaz fan.", 
        "> When he got dropped, and elected to still get up and bang with Daley despite his obvious superiority on the ground I knew exactly what sort of warrior he was.\n\nElected?  What choice did he have?", 
        "Grab is legs and try to get him down. Or take him down once he recovered instead of continuing to throw bombs with a guy who just nearly knocked him out.", 
        "If Nick wanted to get Daley down after landing some ridiculous body shots, he probably could have. He chose to beat him at his own game instead, and it's remarkable.", 
        "The poster said \"When he got dropped, and elected to still get up...\"  Watch the fight again and tell me what choice Nick had as to whether or not he was going to get up and fight on the feet again at that point.\n\nAnd Nick's wrestling is...not exactly great.  He does not have much of a takedown game.  He's not that good at trips or throws, either.  Even if he does want a fight on the ground, he usually doesn't actually have a decent chance at getting it there.  Let's not pretend that he can get the fight to the ground whenever he wants.", 
        ">Let's not pretend that he can get the fight to the ground whenever he wants.\n\nNo one is but Paul Daley has pretty mediocre TDD, Nick could probably get him down if he felt like it. He took Condit, Noons, Shamrock, Neer and Diego all down.", 
        "> No one is but Paul Daley has pretty mediocre TDD, Nick could probably get him down if he felt like it.\n\nProbably not.\n\n> He took Condit, Noons, Shamrock, Neer and Diego all down.\n\nDidn't say he could never do it.  Just that he is not good at it and the likelihood isn't high.  And if you watch some of those takedowns (and some of the failed attempts), you can see why.  And even when he does, he often can't keep them there long (KJ Noons, for example.)\n\nLike I said:  He usually doesn't actually have the choice.", 
        "You think Nick couldn't have taken down Daley who had questionable TDD at the best of times when he was already slowing down? I disagree. Nick has floored fighters with better TDD.", 
        "It's a gamble that rarely pays off. Ronda is the biggest example of this. The diaz bros have an insane level of heart and talent. I've always enjoyed their styles.", 
        "That's bs. Ronda tried to get it to the ground the entire time. ", 
        "You can't compare Ronda's boxing to Diaz's though", 
        "I wasnt. The similarity lies where they decided to engage the opponents strength vs weakness", 
        "Yeah but that comparison isnt the greatest because Nick's boxing is one of his strengths. ", 
        "Gamble, yeah. But let's not pretend that the gulf between Diaz and Daley is the same as Ronda and Holm. (insert shadowboxing gif) ", 
        "I agree.", 
        "[ahem](http://giant.gfycat.com/LiveSeveralIncatern.gif)", 
        "You can't even tell what's she's punching at...fam that's some crazy eyes shit.", 
        "It's like that drunken form of karate ", 
        "Someone needs to take that and put googly eyes on it, where each eye watches a different fist.", 
        "Lets not forget to say thank you to Big John for not stopping this fight and robbing us from this epic comeback , Thank you ", 
        "The reason Big John didn't stop the fight was that Diaz was still talking shit to Daley, even while faceplanted on the mat. There's an audio clip out there too, someone less lazy might be able to find it.", 
        "Thank god dailymotion hasn't pulled this. I've showed so many people this fight.", 
        "I was at this fight and it was the most fun I ever had at an MMA event.", 
        "Shit man, the crowd made it so much better. Diaz has a boatload of fans in SD.", 
        "Smackdown? /s", 
        "Mauro is so great to listen to on commentary too", 
        "Mauro is a legend.  Him with Bas, there will never be another team like them. ", 
        "I was sad when this happened. I used to not like either Diaz brother and thought they were nothing more than bjj trained thugs. I have since changed my opinion.\n\nI try to avoid all the outside the cage drama but what did leak through made them look/sound bad. I didn't know their backstory until the last couple of years and have since developed an appreciation for both of them.", 
        "I remember thinking Diaz was done after getting dropped like that.\n\nWhat a fight.\n\nToo bad Semtex is such an idiot, if he could have stayed in the UFC and been dedicated I think he could be in the title picture in the UFC right now.\n\nLawler and Daley is a fight I'd have loved to see.\n\nIt's funny they're doing the Koscheck - Daley rematch at Bellator this year.", 
        "Can you imagine a dedicated Daley vs Lawler? They'd need buckets to clean up that bloody ring", 
        "Sure the Diaz bros are tough, but they are deffinatly more intelligent than people give them credit for. Their willingness to put their own cerebral integrity on the line in a war of attrition and use their mix of cardio and taunts to goad their opponents into their game is nothing short of poetry.", 
        "Than*", 
        "lol", 
        "Changed, thanks budd.", 
        "Definitely.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "*Now. ", 
        "Wow, you really fucked up that spelling of \"definitely\".  Like, I've seen people fuck it up before a lot, but you fucked up on another level. ", 
        "Gahd, I missed so many good fights in Strikeforce and WEC. I always just watched the UFC back then. Can you guys recommend some other classics I could look up?", 
        "Hendo vs shogun 1 and 2 are a must watch if you haven't ", 
        "[Top 10 WEC fights](http://www.sherdog.com/news/articles/1/Sherdogs-Top-10-WEC-Fights-86777)\n\n[Top 10 Strikeforce fights](http://www.cagedinsider.com/strikeforce/top-10-biggest-best-strikeforce-fights/)\n\n[Top 10 Pride fights](http://www.sherdog.com/news/articles/1/Sherdogs-Top-10-Pride-Fights-91577)\n\n", 
        "You sir, are nothing short of da real mvp.", 
        "I heard Daley had to move up 7 weight classes and that's why he's tired here.", 
        "Fuckin love it dude", 
        "I heard he wasn't efficient with his energy, and that's why Nick won.", 
        "No need to be rude. Daley was humble in defeat.", 
        "Fuckin' inefficient energy man. It's the silent killer. If he'd just been a little more efficient, this fight would've been cake.", 
        "Nick rope a doped him", 
        "One of the greatest MMA rounds of all times.", 
        "Every time Joe Rogan and the recency bias crew proclaim a round to be the greatest round in MMA history, I always want to book a plane ticket to LA, get a cab to West Hills, stalk the studio, tempt Joe outside with some og kush and kombucha and then hit him over that big bald shiny head with a nunchuck until he remembers how sick this fight was.", 
        ">  tempt Joe outside with some og kush \n\nObvious joke but Joe doesn't smoke a strangers weed, he's paranoid like that.", 
        "It's really not a bad policy if you're a celebrity.", 
        "This fight is not just exciting, it's hilarious. Always cracks me right up!!!", 
        "Trash talking, watching Daley completely empty his tank swinging at nothing but air, Nick trying to slip punches while he's on his hands and knees...yeah it is pretty hilarious as well", 
        "One of the best rounds in MMA history.", 
        "Great fucking reffing to let it go on.", 
        "Sat second row for this fight right behind Nate Diaz and Gilbert Melendez's family! It was amazing", 
        "35 seconds left in the round and Diaz scooting around on his butt. Never woulda thought at the time that he'd get up and finish Daley with that much time left.", 
        "Always wished someone would make a gif of Diaz using the force push knocking Daley down.  Perhaps with some dual lightsaber action before hand.", 
        "I've never seen this before but what an awesome round.", 
        "Man, I really loved Strikeforce.  So many great fights.  I remember this fight in particular got me really excited for Nick Diaz's return to the UFC. I hope he fights again. ", 
        "Great fight, thanks for reminding us all.\n\nShout out to Gus Johnson, who was largely panned when he did mixed martial arts play by play due to his \"sometimes these things happen in MMA\" when the Diaz brothers brawled in-cage with Mayhem Miller.\n\nI thought he nailed the final part of it. \n\n\"Oh! Beautiful upper cut, looping right hand, Daley falling, he's in trouble, 11 seconds, Diaz, going in for the kiiiilllll...And it's over!\"\n\nGoosebumps every time. ", 
        "Best round in the history of combat sports.\n\nMakes round one of Hagler Hearns look like a Jake Shields fight. \n\nI was being facetious when I said that of course. But I just watched round 1 of Hagler Hearns. It would be rude to let that statement stand. \n\nI still maintain that Diaz Daily was better. But not by much. ", 
        "Yeah it's a nice fight and all, but you almost deserve to let Semtex punch you in the face for that comparison.  ", 
        "Haggler hearns is one of the greatest of all time dude", 
        "Diaz Bro's have a habit of making you think you got them hurt, then you blow off your energy trying to finish the fight. Then they capatilized after you have spent all of your energy. Love it", 
        "I just woke up from a nap. Never saw this fight. I went nuts when Paul Daley dropped Nick. ", 
        "diaz bro's are the real shit, conor was over confident against nate, he didn't really show much respect for diaz's striking had he hands low and relied on his head movement too much, and he wasted most of his energy throwing spinning kicks and missing nearly all of them, and he was throwing power over precision when diaz can take bombs for days he is durable as fuck very hard to put away and is always in a fight.", 
        "I saw this live. The first major MMA event I ever went to.", 
        "There aint a bad fight in Nick's Strikeforce run. When I'm bored, watching this and the Cyborg, Zaromskis and Scott Smith fights.", 
        " how come no one mentions Diaz getting flash ko'd and dropping at 4:14? the ref coulda stopped that.", 
        "Supposedly was also talking shit the entire way down and back up too", 
        "He continued moving on the ground, I think.", 
        "[Another great Nick moment.](http://cdn2.cagepotato.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/nickdiaz_fuckyoubitch.gif)", 
        "Heh, poor Cyborgs.", 
        "Who was he saying this to? ", 
        "Chris Cyborg. She was sitting cage side when Nick fought her husband Evangelista Santos.\nHere's the fight: http://www.dailymotion.com/video/xgt7yg_nick-diaz-vs-evangelista-santos-strikeforce_sport", 
        "He did not say that to Cyborg wtf are you saying LMFAO!  He was saying it to fans that threw beer at him and were talking shit. ", 
        "This is my favourite fight of all time. ", 
        "I hate how you can barely see the punch that rocked Daley at the end from the main camera angle. ", 
        "Diaz is such a warrior. I hope.to see him fight one more time. I think nates success will push nick to do the same", 
        "\"Diaz going in for the ki-eeellllll.\"", 
        "What a roller coaster that was!", 
        "This is the fight that got me into mma. One of the greatest rounds ever.", 
        "I remember watching this one live. So insane!", 
        "The body shot at the end, when Daley is up against the cage is NASTY!", 
        "I've seen this fight about four times now. This time I watched and thought, \"Should this fight have been stopped?\" Daly had Diaz in the same amount of trouble earlier in the fight, but no stoppage.\n\nI'm guessing it was stopped because Daly's fall looked incredibly bad...", 
        "That and Daley was done, cardio wise. ", 
        "Big John's footwork in this fight is crazy.", 
        "I miss Strikeforce and someone needs to hire Shamrock as an analyst ", 
        "What a come back by Nick Diaz.", 
        "Maaaan, dailymotion can suck my fuckin dick.\n\n", 
        "Glad to see the Diaz bros getting more respect lately. Nearly everyone I know has hated them because of their cockiness. Always loved them because they back up the talk and give credit when they take a loss.", 
        "[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/rAQfdjH.jpg)\n\nWas the first MMA event I went to, was not disappointed.", 
        "Love the stockton slap! ", 
        "I feel like if Daley wouldn't have been cut he's be a champ in the UFC. ", 
        "Such a beautiful display of violence.  ", 
        "I wasn't surprised. ", 
        "What a fucking fight! I totally forgot about this one. Thank you!", 
        "thank you.\n\nwatching this improved my mood tremendously.\n\ncan't get enough Diaz brothers - win or lose - true fighters, real fights.", 
        "Diaz went on such a great run there in strike force ", 
        "A fight made for soccer kicks", 
        "nothing better than seeing paul douchebag daley lose. except for the time he threw the punch after the fight was over against josh douchebag koscheck. satisfying.", 
        "...and they laughed at me and said i didnt know shit about MMA, when i told them McGregor/Diaz was going to turn out similar to Diaz/Daley. ", 
        "> similar to Diaz/Daley.\n\nApparently they were right.", 
        "Both were comebacks.", 
        "It says something when the Fertitta Bros show up to watch you fight in another league. ", 
        "This is right after they bought strikeforce. ", 
        "didn't he sucker punch Diaz after the fight? Maybe I am thinking of someone else, but if he did that is a total bitch move considering the way it ended", 
        "You might be thinking of Daley doing something like that which got him kicked from the UFC.", 
        "[Josh Koscheck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRWSCVcijyQ)", 
        "Dirty! ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Daley went out diaz did not.", 
        "Diaz had wrist control and was getting up.  He didn't get beat up too bad on the ground.  Big John saw how bad Daley flopped and he was getting bombs landed on him.  Daley had to be helped to the chair when it was over.  Good stoppage. ", 
        "Daley looked like Rockhold on Wiedman? I'm not sure what part of that fight you are referring to, but as I recall, Rockhold put an extended beating on Wiedman in the third round and then he continued it in the fourth. I think there is an argument that you could stop the fight in the third round when Rockhold is on top of Wiedman for a long period of time without Chris escaping but he was the champ and he got the benefit of the doubt.\n\nIn comparison, this was still in the first round, so the ref would not be as concerned with a sustained period of damage. Also, Diaz was the champion - he was going to get the benefit of the doubt. And Diaz also wasn't on the ground as long and he wasn't being held there by Daley.\n\nFinally, I think the fact that Paul Daley is a stand-up fighter and Nick is known as a dangerous guard player also contributes to Big John allowing the fight to continue. Daley very rarely finishes fights from top position, if he ever has. Diaz has finished a lot of fights from the bottom. Considering that you would think that Daley would be reluctant to go all out for a finish in that scenario. Sure enough, Daley ends up backing off pretty quickly and Nick stands back up.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Frankie should tell everybody around him to keep their mouths shut until the deal is done and when it does get done, it should be Frankie doing the talking.", 
        "Because that's worked out so well for him before, right? Dana seems to love fucking Frankie over more than rolling around in Saudi money. I totally get why there's so much shade being thrown.", 
        "How exactly was Frankie fucked over?\n\nConor got the Aldo fight because he generated more interest and everybody wanted to see him vs Aldo.\n\nMendes got the call because he was the higher ranked fighter at the time.\n\nConor was moving up to fight RDA for the 155 title until RDA got injured. Frankie was also injured at this time. That injury meant that he couldn't be the replacement.\n\nIt's not so much \"fucked over\" as it is circumstantial.", 
        "\"Whatever Frankie wants, Frankie gets\"\n\n- Dana White 12/12/15", 
        "That quote was from the 11th of December.\n\nThe next day - \"Conor McGregor knocks out the Pound-For-Pound #1 Fighter in the World in 13 seconds\".", 
        "Oh, ouch. You really got me there with your semantic argument that doesn't prove your point at all.\n\nFrankie did not get what Frankie wanted.", 
        "Has he not? It's not like he has had to fight somebody else. It's only been four months since Conor won the title.", 
        "I really can't make this any simpler, Frankie was promised a shot, Frankie then got told to move to the back of the bus so connie and RDA could fight. Everything else is just static.", 
        "He wasn't told to go to the back of the bus. \n\nEvents the night after overturned anything that Frankie was told after the TUF finale. Aldo's 10 year dominance is worthy of a rematch and Conor is the hottest thing in MMA right now so if he wants to chase history, why not let him?\n\nEvents just transpired against Frankie. You need to lose the victim complex because it is completely circumstantial.", 
        "Nothing about a victim complex, everything to do with holding Dana accountable for the bullshit he spits.\n\nDude saw dollar signs in shamrocks and fucked Frankie for the money. \n\n\nEdit : and don't get me wrong, Aldo was the man. But that man got dropped in under a quarter of a minute. He doesn't deserve an immediate rematch, IMO.", 
        "*How exactly was Frankie fucked over?*\n\nHe was #1 Contender after he beat Cub. UFC changed the rankings so Chad was and then got the interim title fight\n\n\n\n", 
        "He was never the #1 contender. Cub self-proclaimed himself the #1 contender prior to that fight. \n\nMedia members vote on the P4P rankings, not the UFC.\n", 
        "Never?\n\n*It is true that Edgar is ranked #1 currently, and since Mendes has been defeated by Aldo twice, the decision certainly surprised some people.*\n\nhttp://mmafrenzy.com/121209/ufc-189-frankie-edgar-details-surprised-chad-mendes-standby/\n\nAnd who mentioned P4P?\n\n", 
        "WORLDS STRONGEST MAN???", 
        "Question: Who has better top control between Mendes and Edgar, and who is better at keeping their opponent down?\n\nI feel Edgar has a better TC game, but Mendes may be heavier in top, and harder to get up against.", 
        "Edgar.\n\nThe Swanson fight is a perfect example.", 
        "I agree. He looks to pass, do damage and attempt submission where Chad is happy to lay in guard most of the time. Is it harder to get up with Chad on top of you though?\n\nAlso, what do you think this means for Conor, assuming Frankie gets on top of him?", 
        "Yeah I believe Chad is the better wrestler but Edgar will do much more damage ", 
        "I liked it more when people around Frankie just shut the hell up and let him talk in the cage. However I do agree with him, Frankie has a very good chin and as long as he can avoid/successfully absorb those left hands then he will probably put on a TD/Top Control masterpiece.", 
        "I don't think absorbing those left hand shots is the right plan.", 
        "Frankie has a fucking granite chin", 
        "Yeah so did Aldo ", 
        "He can't avoid it forever. By absorbing it I mean not get Aldo'd.", 
        "His chin has been tested more than Aldo.", 
        "Yes I said he has a very good chin.", 
        "Idea would be to avoid them first\n\nEveryone has now seen Conor get tired, make him throw those punches and kicks as he wants the highlight reel to continue\n\n", 
        "Thats the thing. Hes been trying to do just that for a while now.", 
        "frankie deserves the fight aldo got smoked ...", 
        "ido pool noodle disagrees\n", 
        "I think the person fighting Conor at 200 already knows it, this just tells us it's not Frankie.", 
        "Frankie'd better stay in shape then", 
        "Probably right.", 
        "I would really love to see him fight conor but to be completely fair Frankie should know what it feels like to have 3 back to back instant rematches and make the whole division wait for a title shot pretty much ruining chances for others Aldo deserves his 1 and only rematch let him have it like you had all your other Frankie.", 
        "Eh, tell Frankie to stay in shape because Aldo will probably get hurt anyways. ", 
        " If Aldo gets hurt AGAIN I'll be shocked", 
        "To me it would be proof positive he's using PED's. ", 
        "You're on PED's.", 
        "wouldn't surprise me a bit \n\nturned down Mcgregor at UFC 196, pulled out after being cleared by the doctors for their first bout, then turned to twitter LMFAO! ", 
        "I paid to see him fight in Calgary and again in Vegas (against McGregor). I'm more surprised when he does show up. ", 
        "I agree since Edgar is campaigning so aggressively, makes you wonder if any of the UFC brass has talked to him yet. I have the feeling that whoever it is in contract negotiations right now and to add Connor and Kavanagh already made hints at picking Aldo. The momentum favors an Aldo fight. I mean look at it this way, should i fight a guy where I really don't have to worry about a take down and killed in 13 secs or risk it with a guy who most surely take me down and derailing the train to a lightweight championship fight. ", 
        "conor post diaz said aldo. coach kavananagagagahahah post diaz said aldo. comes down to if aldo wants the fight (he shouldnt, brain inury, he needs at at least 12 months no contact)....that means frankie is up only if aldo declines.", 
        "Jose has really strong take downs. The Mark Hominick Jose took him down a couple of times and controlled him. But you aren't wrong. ", 
        "I think its bullshit people in MMA even gets to decline fights like this, especially champs and we all know who the real n1 contender is, and its not Aldo.", 
        "I don't think Edgar necessarily would get the fight to the ground. Conor can approach a fight against a guy like Edgar completely differently too how he tried to fight Diaz, he has his reach advantage back. It is a massive advantage.\n\nThe biggest tools in Conors arsenal are his length and his power in that left straight when he gets you with it. He gave up both of those in the fight against Diaz, and he gets them both back against Edgar.", 
        "I think Frankie won't have much trouble getting him down to start with, see little reason to think Conor will have more success against him than he did against Mendes even if Conor has a better more takedown defense oriented camp than he did against Mendes", 
        "Eeehhhhh idk Edgar has mewvment so it's not like conor would connect with ease", 
        "Edgar is a very very technical wrestler. Cub knew exactly what Frankie was going to try to do, and he couldn't do much about it. He'd stop the initial takedown and Frankie would keep switching it until he got him. He doesn't just double leg like a lot of people do. \n\nI'd be very interested to see if Conor could stop him. Conor is very lanky especially at 145 and that makes things a bit more challenging when it comes to stopping takedowns. \n\n", 
        "Yeah I am aware, my wrestling knowledge is real low, so it is hard for me to sort of comprehend that aspect of the sport.\n\nI just can see him having trouble getting inside of Conor's reach is all. I'd love to see the fight though.", 
        "Frankie is also used to fighting taller and bigger guys like Bendo, Maynard and Penn, so the size wouldn't be much of a deal for him", 
        "Not to mention he has that Diaz-level cardio. ", 
        "Short guys are almost always accostomed to fighting taller guys because everyone is taller then them in the gym. ", 
        "It's a short thing.", 
        "Frankie doesn't just bring wrestling to the table, half the reason he gets takedowns is because he has ridiculous footwork and combinations. His angles/movement and the threat of takedowns make him so unpredictable, I don't think Conor would find a home for the straight that easily", 
        "I'm aware Frankie is good standing up, but Conor is better, and has a pretty big advantage in terms of length and reach.", 
        ">I'm aware Frankie is good standing up, but Conor is better\n\nBased on what? Him flash KO'ing Aldo, getting rag dolled/tagged by a fat Mendes only to catch him gassing and getting lit up by the only significantly taller fighter he faces?\n\nFrankie has shown a far more consistent stand up and against significantly larger guys. Conor wouldn't be able to keep up with Frankies pace, not after he gassed in 1 round against a 10 day fit Diaz.", 
        ">but Conor is better\n\nPlease elaborate. ", 
        "Conor is longer, more powerful, throws punches from all sorts of angles and is pretty evasive. If you were only allowed to kick box I think Conor wouldn't have a hard time at all against frankie. Fortunately for Frankie that is only a part of the game.", 
        "My 2 cents: Frankie feints so much it's likely to have an adverse effect on Conor's intercepting counter punches. Defensive Conor is gonna be either swinging air or being hesitant because of that. They're both very good at moving in the octagon, but I doubt Frankie will be pinned against the cage like Nate and Mendes were. If it happens though, Offensive Conor will most likely get the finish: he's got a very good chance of KO/TKO in the first round because of reach and strength advantages. He displayed some very creative striking against Nate but might have possibly backtracked from his headhunting and aim for body shots, softening Frankie before attempting the finish.", 
        "Conor has never fought a guy like Frankie I would give to Frankie easy he'd wear him down tiring him out in the grappling game then either edge out a decision or take him down for the finish via GnP or submission. You have to remember Frankie is also a big 145er who has taken on alot of 155ers he can take a fuck load of damage like nate can I don't see conor putting him away this fight wouldn't be good for conor.", 
        "Frankie is big for 145, he isn't anywhere near as long as Conor though. And length is the issue, conor having to force the issue to get inside against Frankie like he was with Nate.\n\nI think it will be a nuts fight, I'd definitely give Conor a pretty solid chance.\n\nIt is definitely the toughest fight at FW for him though.", 
        "Most FWs are bigger than Frankie.", 
        "And Conor monsters pretty much all of them. He is also one of if not the best fighter in the division (him, Aldo or Edgar).\n\nIt's definitely not going to be easy for Edgar, which is what a lot of people seem to be implying.", 
        "I don't think Conor will be able to handle Frankie's wrestling and pressure tbh.\n\nConor talks about how he's legit for taking a fight at a weight class above the one he cuts down to, whereas Frankie could probably be a 135er and has been a champion at 155.", 
        "Frankie was disadvantaged that way a lot at 155 without much trouble at all", 
        "Frankie has presumably trained all this time knowing he was the smaller man.  You learn to fight well for your body, Frankie doesn't have to change anything about his game.  ", 
        "I think the 5th ranked LW Nate Diaz put that 155 title shot on hold for a while anyway", 
        "I think you underestimate how much sway conor has with dana/joe silva :<\n\nI honestly wouldn't be surprised if another win over jose got him a shot at RDA.", 
        "Get beat by a top ranked LW and still get a shot. That would be absolutely horrible", 
        "Which would be a complete disgrace", 
        "bums me out but painfully realistic  ", 
        "He needs to hijack a fox broadcast and make his statement.  Maybe do something ratchet and get someone from TMZ to film it.  That'll build interest.\n\nGet em' Frankie!", 
        "You seem to have forgotten his little \"1, 2, Frankie's coming for you..\" cringe-worthy skit.", 
        "Remember when MMA was about fights, styles and match ups? I do. ", 
        "\"Fuck that! Conor McGregor, you're taking everything I worked for, motherfucker! I'mma fight YOUR fuckin' ass! You know what's the real fight, the real money fight is ME! Not these clowns that you already punked at the press conference. Don't no one want to see that. You know you beat them already. That's the easy fight. You want that real shit, right here!\"", 
        "You can't say that on Fox ", 
        "But it was said on Fox I thought?", 
        "Whooooooossssshhhhhhh", 
        "Joe also said that they were screeeaming in his earplug to cut Nate off", 
        "That was Joe's reply... ", 
        "But with that on mind I'm gonna let you keep the mic cuz the promos will be insane", 
        "He's right. He's earned. And it's a fucking amazing stylistic fight. MAke the fight. Plus it's the perfect fight for both of them in terms of their goals.", 
        "> He's right. He's earned.\n\n3-4 days ago in the thread about who should McGregor fight next, anyone who said Edgar was getting downvoted and people who said Aldo had many upvotes.", 
        "ive been seeing tons of people saying edgar vs conor next\n\nmost people also seem to agree that edgar will be the tougher match up that will test him more. not because hes \"better\" than aldo, thats not how mma works (not directed at you, just general). the difference in styles between edgar and aldo is why most people seem to feeel edgar should be a tougher matchup", 
        "The vocal != The majority", 
        "Care to elaborate how this is a good stylistic fight? Isn\u00b4t frankie a lot shorter, something that will play in conors favor?", 
        "Don't you think mcgregors size and reach will be too much for the small Edgar?", 
        "No, shut up and join the circle jerk you fool.", 
        "Those are some obvious advantages for McGregor, but Edgar's faced that before. ", 
        "I do", 
        "Edgar was the lightweight champ. He's fought guys with a height and rehydrated weight advantage for years. Still never been finished. ", 
        "The only guy Frankie ever fought in his career that was even remotely the same size as Conor was Charles Oliveira. I don't think we even need to mention the striking gap between Conor and Do Bronx. \n\nedit: how on earth could you downvote this? It's objectively true. ", 
        ">how on earth could you downvote this? It's objectively true.\n\nHave to tow the line nowadays. Just have to agree with the consensus or you're out.", 
        "Because you asked why we are down voting it? ", 
        "Gray Maynard is bigger than Conor", 
        "Bj Penn was bigger than Conor, Penn is 5'9 and regularly fought at WW, something Conor doesnt do, and Frankie had no problem with BJ's size. He even handled Bendo's size pretty well, and Bendo is heavier than Conor and same height too", 
        "Who cares about height?\n\nIt's reach and little else that matters. No one is really worried about how Frankie would do wrestling and strength wise, it's how he fares standing up. ", 
        "im sure frankie would do fine standing up too. His boxing is great, maybe not Conor's level, but still pretty good. Frankie has always had a problem with leg kicks in which he catches them, but they still land full force, but the reason he couldn't make anything out of catching them is because guys like Bendo and Aldo have great takedown defense, so im sure if Conor tried leg kicking him, Frankie could capitalize off of those and take him down, so really all Conor could do is box with him while worrying about the takedown constantly, so i think it would balance out pretty well. The reason I mentioned height, is because generally height and reach are pretty similar on a person, now yeas Conor has 4 more inches or reach than BJ and Bendo, but Frankie is still used to that, and BJ and Bendo were also heavier than Conor.", 
        "None of those guys knocked out Aldo in 13 seconds though.", 
        "He might have shorter reach, but Benson is easily bigger than Conor. ", 
        "Bigger than 145 McGregor, smaller than Steak McGregor though.", 
        "Uhh... No. Benson walks around at 185+ lbs these days, and he usually started his camp at 180 when he fought at LW in the WEC and UFC. ", 
        "But I thought McGregor was a huge LW cutting to FW and just crushed Manlet cans?!?!?!?\n\nBenson is heavier, McGregor is longer though.", 
        "Yea Conor's got some long ass arms for a 5'9\" frame. Wonder what his leg reach is though. Probably long too.\n\nIt's like all of the torso he doesn't have is on Artem's body.  ", 
        "Benson beat Edgar twice tho ", 
        "Here's the thing. Benson won a split decision that a lot of people thought Edgar should have taken. Most people think and thought that Benson should have been fighting at welterweight and Edgar is a natural featherweight. So, for Edgar to come that close to a a dude two weight classes higher than him, Edgar doesn't need to worry about size.", 
        "Ehh", 
        "I agree. Edgar easily won the rematch, but clearly lost the first one to Benson.", 
        "Super Ehh.", 
        "the thing about guys known for never being finished, is that they tend to get finished in a big way later in their careers.\n\nFrankie's eaten a lot of bombs over his career, i wouldn't bet on that iron chin against Conor.", 
        "It takes precise striking to KO somebody like that, the sort of precision McGregor displayed vs Aldo.", 
        "Man, this is a big fight for Mcgregor, I don't mean to be so dramatic but being the UFC's biggest draw, 2 losses on some of the biggest PPV might be a little hard to come back from.  On the other hand, if he wins he becomes the dominant Featherweight* that cleared out his division and wanted to fighter larger opponents, possibly setting up the Dos Anjos fight again, or maybe some other lightweight like Ferguson. \n\nEdit: fixed the weight class", 
        "> possibly setting up the Dos Anjos fight again\n\nI don't see how beating people in a different division should garner you a title shot. Man did you see Nate smash Conor at 170 totes should get a title fight against Rockhold.", 
        "Downvote for saying \"totes\" in an MMA group", 
        "Agreed, nate's easily at the top of lightweight and he smashed conor. Regardless of their weight fight night, I think the biggest takeaway was toward the lightweight division. \n\nEssentially, they were two lightweights who didn't cut to 155\n\nIf conor beats frankie all that's really left for him at FW is an Aldo rematch. Which I think needs to happen as well. Then we can start up the immediate title shot/ eliminator fight talk again. ", 
        "Contrary to popular opinion: I think that fight goes down differently if it happened at 155 as opposed to 170", 
        "completely agree, would love to see that rematch happen at some point @ 155, now that Conor realises trying to knock out Nate in the 1st round is a dangerous way to approach the fight.", 
        "Diaz probably couldn't make weight at 155 seeing as he only had 10 days notice. 165 was set originally. I doubt 5 lbs would have mattered. ", 
        "How so?\n\nIt's not like their skill levels change with 15 lbs. \n\n", 
        "Aldo does. But he is behind Frankie in line.\n\nEdit: It appears I have commented in the wrong spot. No fucking idea what happened.", 
        "Oi, back to /r/NRL with you the Roosters need the support more than Aldo haha", 
        "I'm no Aldo fan. But you can't be champ for 10 years and not deserve a rematch!\n\nedit: He was undefeated not champion for 10 years.", 
        "Just joshing ya bud. Didn't expect to see you in this neck of the woods ", 
        "Where do people keep getting this 10 year figure from?", 
        "I did a ninja edit as you commented I think ", 
        "Oh okay haha makes sense, all good then.", 
        "Frankie lost back to back LW title fights and got an immediate shot at the FW champion Jose Aldo.  If Conor beats Frankie that gives him wins over the top 4 FWs.  I don't think many people will cry if Conor is fighting RDA around Thanksgiving if that happens.", 
        "He only got that title shot because he was an injury replacement and nobody else was willing to step up.", 
        "You do know Frankie won those fights at LW? The judges were horrible those fights. Aldo beat him though.", 
        "Not only is Edgar a Top 3 FW, he's also a former LW champion.\n\nConor will be fighting for that belt this year if he gets past his next opponent, guaranteed. ", 
        "I think having a ufc belt gives you a free pass to fight the champion in any weightclass you can get to (provided you don't hold up your own division for too long). Real superfights involving champions are vanishingly rare as it is - that's probably a good thing, but we don't need to make them rarer. ", 
        "> Real superfights involving champions are vanishingly rare as it is - that's probably a good thing\n\nHow is it a good thing? I mean, when was the last time you remember two champs form two weight classes fighting each other while both holding belts? hell, get rid of the belt and still, how often do you see two top guys just take a catchweight fight for fun? ", 
        "Keeping the flame for the dream Mighty Mouse - Werdum bout alive, aww yeah.", 
        "To be fair, he did say any weight class you can get to, and I don't think Mighty Mouse is going to weigh 206 pounds unless he eats an actual cow whole just before the weigh-ins.", 
        "I just want to see lard-fed Mighty Mouse okay\n\nStop ruining my dreams", 
        "I think from a business standpoint, do the Aldo rematch. Its a bigger and a seemingly safer fight for Conor. I can see Edgar mauling Conor and taking him into deep water. Can't see how Conor will be able  to hang with Edgar for 5 rounds especially after a cut to 145. ", 
        "I don't see it that way at all. When we're talking about \"business standpoint\" with this fight, the hardcore fans don't matter much, because we're going to tune in either way, weather it's Edger or Aldo. So the people that Dana and the UFC want to sell this fight to are the casuals, who probably aren't going to get too hot and bothered by a rematch with a guy that Conor's already starched in 13 seconds. You can sell Edger a lot easier. Former champ who dethroned a long time legend, much like Conor, and who is now going for his second belt at a different weight class. Not to mention the matchup considerations. It's easier to sell this as likely being a close fight due to Frankie's wrestling and how Conor is going to deal with it.", 
        "> I think from a business standpoint\n\nYou're right, but goddamn it I want him to fight Edgar.\n", 
        "Yeah but l goddamn see Edgar running through Conor. As much as Edgar deserves the shot, and a win for that matter. I enjoy seeing big fights and big hype and Conor has more potential at that. ", 
        "Fuck business decisions. Win or go home!", 
        "Super easy to say when your job doesn't depend upon consistently pulling casual fans into ordering, though. Most people that watch because it's \"something to do\" are going to buy into an Aldo rematch easier.\n\nTrust me, I would love to see the Edgar fight as well. I hope that's the way it goes.", 
        "This is in fact the opposite of what would happen and its why Dana and Lorenzo have said for months that the Aldo rematch is a tough sell. This would be the third time promoting that fight, and a massive majority of the fans who bought the PPV were seeing Aldo for the very first time, and he got knocked out in one punch. \n\nIts looking like it will be Aldo now because thats who Conor wants, but this is a much harder sell than a Conor-Frankie fight. \n\n", 
        "I think they're both equally hard to sell because Frankie isnt a very big draw either, thus why he's pulling all these antics for attention", 
        "Yeh I just don't get how they will promote an Aldo rematch to the casual fans  Conor has been calling him a bum since they announce 189 and then he knocked him out in 13. IMO they need to get promoting Edgar to build hype, they've got shit to go on; \n\n\n\"he's been ducking me, he's scared of wrestlers, he's only fought short camp mendes who took him down and did damage and I KO'd full camp mendes in 1st round etc\" ", 
        "Maybe.  But what if Aldo is more conservative, lands kicks and wins?  That's even worse because it would make the first fight look like a fluke (even if it wasn't). \n\nThen McGregors only \"true\" victory is Mendes. ", 
        "Aldo can't just land kicks and win, its not that simple.", 
        "[urijah didnt like em](http://www.mma-core.com/img/p/o/Urijah_Faber_s_Leg_After_Aldo_Fight-11382.jpg)\n\nask [nate diaz](https://38.media.tumblr.com/5bbba746a61058bec76ae8cf5ad3f75b/tumblr_ngl37gvLww1u2ragso1_r1_500.gif) is leg kicks can be a huge factor in a fight\n\n[barry was nasty with them](http://dojodrifter.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/2yplwnq.gif) tkod that go from leg kicks only", 
        "You need to set shit up, leg kicks aren't some trump card he can just pull out. Not to mention, throwing his leg kicks leaves him heavily open to McGregor's left. He has to perfectly set them up over and over again for multiple rounds before they even have that much of an effect, while at the same time avoiding getting rocked by the guy who KO'd him with one shot the last time.\n\nBut no, you guys think the reason Aldo lost is because he forgot what a leg kick was.", 
        "> But no, you guys think the reason Aldo lost is because he forgot what a leg kick was.\n\nyes, thats exactly what i said! thanks for clarifying. good post", 
        "Pretty sure what he means is Conor's reach advantage combined with his in-out movement may be risky for Aldo to kick against. Not saying it's impossible but Conor's not going to just stand there.", 
        "you think im gonna just sit there and let you leg kick me jose? thinks conor, joe. ", 
        "Justin Gaethje disagrees. Watch his fight from last night to see what I mean. ", 
        "You know what I mean.  What if Aldo wins?  ", 
        "*Ahem*\n\nI will FLY out to DANA WHITES house, and COMMIT SUICIDE with him.", 
        "Back to Ireland with my Gs", 
        "> Then McGregors only \"true\" victory is Mendes. \n\nRegardless of the outcome, that will never be the case.", 
        "Thats fair but from a chance standpoint, Aldo is a much easier fight than Edgar. Aldo will be fine standing up with him and he wont have to run from the takedown. Frankie will drag conor feet first into the championship rounds and grind him down", 
        "I still want Aldo to sit for a few more months. No need to risk further brain trauma yet. ", 
        "> \"true\" victory is Mendes.\n\nwhom conner definitely beat, but that was pretty close to being a loss for conner as well", 
        "Being held down for less than two rounds doesn't mean you were close to losing, it's not like he was out on his feet or narrowly survived a tight submission", 
        "I mean that's what people said about the first fight as well. I agree that it's absolutely possible that Aldo lands a ton of leg kicks and body kicks and grinds Conor out in a decision win, but if I had told anyone on this sub 4 months ago that Aldo wouldn't land a single kick at 194, I would've been downvoted to hell and back and laughed out of the room. It just goes to show that trying to predict what happens in a fight like this is mostly educated guess work and nonsense. It's a fucking fight, and no one knows what's going to happen. That's why we tune in.", 
        "Yes I know.  But what I'm saying is that Aldo is riskier for the UFC. ", 
        "I see what you mean, but I think we might have to agree to disagree on that one. I see your point that if Aldo won, the first fight might be considered a fluke, but as far as a strictly matchup standpoint goes, I think Aldo is a way better matchup for Conor. This is coming from a huge McGregor fan, but he got wrestlefucked pretty hard by Mendes. Now he did a great job of minimizing the damage he took, and getting back to his feet, but still. Once he's on his feet I believe that he can out strike anyone in his division of he stays smart. On the ground, not so much, at all. Now Aldo could very well take him down, but I kind of doubt that he'll be able to keep him down long enough to do anything significant other than maybe steal a round. Aldo is very good with his BJJ but he's a striker by nature, and even though Conor has proven that he can beat a high level wrestler, a striker is still always going to be a better matchup for Conor than a wrestler.", 
        "I actually think Conor has a better chance against a wrestler on the ground than a bjj black belt. Have a look at the breakdown of the ground work in Nate vs Conor in [this article](http://bleacherreport.com/articles/2622483-no-exit-the-ingenious-grappling-of-nate-diaz-at-ufc-196). Aldo might very well flip the script and go for the mat after what happened in the first fight. ", 
        "Who didn't have a full camp.  I'm a fan of Conor's, I'm just stating what the naysayers will be putting out there.", 
        "I'm a big fan of Conor but I still think his winning streak since Mendes is \"luck of the Irish\"! If Chad had kept throwing elbows he might have won that fight. The Aldo finish was also a fluke. ", 
        "Wow I haven't heard that saying in a long time", 
        "How was the Aldo finish a fluke. He said \"He will over extend with the right and I will bang him with the left hook\" and thats literally EXACTLY what happened", 
        "I think Conor picked him apart in that fight and did it wisely. Those front kicks to the body were horrendous and Chad was just at the end of Conor's reach, against the cage unable to do much. Mendes also went for transition way too early in the 2nd round, letting McGregor get back up to finish the fight", 
        "Featherweight* ", 
        "Personally I think Aldo earned a rematch by being such a dominant champ for so long, BUT Aldo is coming off a bad KO and UFC 200 is just around the corner. I say give it to Edgar and give Aldo time to fully recover.", 
        "if aldo wins that forces a triology though and would be so annoying.", 
        "I would be shocked if the opponent wasn't already chosen.", 
        "Aldo needs to continue resting/training for the rest of the year.", 
        "Thing is, he's already been training.", 
        "that doesnt mean anything, considering he was training when they asked him to fill in for Dos Anjos and he declined.", 
        "Actually it means the difference. \n\nAt the time to fill in for RDA, Aldo was in relax mode and serving his suspension from \"no contact\" so obviously he made the smart move and declined.\n\nAldo will be ready for 200 and he will face Conor. \n\n", 
        "Please excuse my disdain for Aldo getting the rematch, I just really dont like the way he handled himself after the loss. The man has gone into denial, this after getting FLAT LINED in less than 20 seconds by a man that shit talked him for a whole year. I understand that he was undefeated for a long time but man, let it go - continue fighting - the belt isnt everything.", 
        "Fair enough, and your honesty is refreshing and appreciated.\n\nI'm only good for a rematch if the fight was a controversial split (or wrong) decision. \n\nThis is how things will most likely play out at FW. \n\nPersonally I think Conor will take on Frankie after 200 if at all, depending on different factors that need to develop along the way.", 
        "I'd usually agree, but that'd basically be 2 years without a fight for him (the only thing being 13 seconds he probably can't remember). Could be rough. ", 
        "Still, better than going in there and getting back-to-back KOs like Mendes and fucking himself because his head still isn't straight. ", 
        "Mendes still had 5 months, though. That's not overly unreasonable, considering he wasn't KO'd against Conor (rather TKO'd and too tired to respond). That was hardly like Machida getting horribly concussed against Rockhold and then trying to fight Romero 2 months after. Frankie just had a perfectly landed shot. ", 
        "> Machida getting horribly concussed against Rockhold and then trying to fight Romero 2 months after. \n\nThat was madness, he shouldn't have done that, was sad to watch", 
        "That's a fair point.", 
        "Maybe it's just me, but I really don't see why champions get instant rematches in fights where they clearly lost. You can't get any more definitive than a quick knockout.\n\nAnd I'm one of the people who thought Aldo would clean his clock.", 
        "Forcing a previous champion to fight a single contender before a rematch would be a more interesting system. If they're really a champion they should be able to hack that anyway..", 
        "Am i the only one that doesn't want anymore pressers/media coverage of Aldo/Mcgregor? We had almost an entire year of it in 2015. I can't take another 3 months.", 
        "And just imagine the pressers / media coverage in the lead up to the biggest UFC event in history.", 
        "By the UFC's own \"rules\" they've applied in many recent title bouts, Aldo should indeed be next.\n\nHowever, Frankie is the most deserving #1 contender.\n\nUnfortunately the top contenders rarely get their shots these days.\n\nIt feels like the last time a clear cut top contender got to fight the champ was Gus and Jones. Maybe Werdum vs Cain as well. But it's definitely the exception, not the rule.", 
        "I dunno I can think of a exceptions,  \n\nDJ v Dodson \n\nCruz v TJ\n\nLawler v Rory\n\nRockhold v the Chris (not the rematch)\n\nBoth rumble and gas were top contenders v DC too ", 
        "Gus was coming off a ko loss to rumble", 
        "I thought it was the other way round, my memory is shit sometimes ", 
        "I think health-wise it would be good to do Conor/Frankie at 200 and the winner face Aldo sometime in the fall. Aldo for all of his drive did get ko'd so hard he shouldn't fight this quickly after.", 
        "Every time I time I see that thumbnail, I picture Frankie walking around like that draped in flags screaming outside Dana's house to give him the fight.", 
        "I can see Dana spinning this around saying 'We gave you the fight but you didn't take it', when Frankie was injured and Nate Diaz took his place. Hope he gets the fight though it'd be fucking huge", 
        "\"Give the fans what they want\"\n\nI want McGregor v. Aldo.", 
        "You're in luck because it happened  already. I guess you missed it? It was only a few seconds long so that's very possible.", 
        "There's been a few straw polls on /r/MMA and the majority have been calling for Edgar.\n\nBoth fights are compelling and I won't be disappointed either way, but after Edgar dropped Mendes and McG dropped Aldo in the same weekend, McG/Edgar just feels like the right direction to go for 200.", 
        "Maybe McG/Edgar was the fight to make all along. I hated seeing Conor move up in weight... and it pretty much turned out bad for everyone involved... except Nate Diaz.", 
        "Poor Frankie. Hes spent months desparately begging for a fight he probably deserves to get and hes still going to get passed over for Aldo. ", 
        "They would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English and was a 13-second bust in the most highly anticipated fight in UFC history. That's a problem. Give it to Frankie, who just knocked out the beast that is Mendes in the first period (when Mendes actually had a training camp).", 
        "Or others could argue it's aldo being passed over for frankie", 
        "How many fights does he have left on his contract? If he doesn't get this fight I can't even imagine his level of frustration. I could see him moving to Bellator and becoming a 2 div champ whilst making more money. ", 
        "Conor should have fought him instead of Dennis Siver in all honesty.", 
        "Nobody was available or willing to face Conor at that time, especially since he was still a \"nobody\" and greatly \"doubted\" by the top ranked fighters.\n", 
        "What?\n\nAfter Conor put away Dustin Poirier is right when the UFC went into full hype mode with him. The Dennis Siver fight promotion is what exploded Conor into the spotlight. Even the fight before this he headlined his own card in his home country. \n\nEven at that time everyone wanted him. He was the best ratio of \"fan favorite\" and \"untested by elite fighters.\"\n\n\"he was still a nobody\"\n\nAt that point he was the most popular guy in the division lol, stop with the revisionist hero defense. ", 
        "Lulz, \"revisionist hero defense\".\n\nExactly, after he beat The Diamond people were still doubting his skills and was considered a \"nobody\" by the top of the division. \n\nAs far as \"full hype mode\" is concerned, the machine was behind him already by the Ireland show, they did give him main event as you noted. Originally billed against Cole Miller but in the end headlined by Brandao.\n\n", 
        "Frankie had just come off a win over Swanson, it would have been a 6 week turnaround and Edgar wasn't calling for it. Conor got his shot by stopping Poirer in the first round, Siver was just Boston \"New Year Bonus for everyone\" fight. ", 
        "He got the title shot off his Poirer win, the UFC didn't want him to fight again but he wanted another fight in the meantime because he would have had to wait 9 months for his shot.", 
        "If he wasnt conor thats what would have happenned. Wonderboy thompson got rory mcdonald instead of a title shot. Its right to test him, you cant have 3 wins in the ufc and then get a shot over the guys who have been top 10 for years and only fight the best.\n\nIt wouldnt have made the money fight they had though.", 
        "Nice username ", 
        "If an in shape Johnny Hendricks isn't a test, i don't know what is.", 
        "Didn't he have 5 wins and 4 knockouts?  I guess it was 4 wins and 3 KO's when he first got the title shot.  Since the Siver fight was a warm  up or whatever.  Still though, He was 5-0 in the UFC and had back to back KO's of the #5 and #9 fighters in the 145 division.  And Aldo had already fought and defeated everyone in front of him.  And then he KO's Mendes for the Interim title.  By the time they fought I'd say he had earned the title shot.  Especially when you factor in how big of a draw he had become.", 
        "> If he wasnt conor thats what would have happenned.\n\nNo chance in hell. Look at the guys that got title shots before McGregor. Mendes beat Lentz, Guida, and Elkins. Lamas beat Koch, Hioki, and Swanson. KenFlo beat just Diego Nunes and was riding on hype. It's rare for a fighter to have to beat more than one top 5 fighter to get a title shot at featherweight let alone fight a top 2 rank righter like Edgar.\n\nThompson is getting these fights because he is asking for them. Condit beat Thiago Alves and got a title shot. ", 
        "I know, it's ridiculous how people think Conor should have fought the 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1st contenders to get his title shot, yet were baying for Cub and Mendes etc to get the shot when they hadn't beaten anyone great. \n\nThe fact that McGregor won the belt shows the shot was more deserved than anyone else Aldo has fought for 10 years", 
        "Thank you.  Does anyone think that the UFC would have gotten full force behind McGregor if they didn't think he could actually be the champion?  There are tons of shit talkers the UFC doesn't pay a lot of attention to because they can't back it up, but Conor has the potential to be the GOAT featherweight.", 
        "This idea that Conor just waltzed into a title shot with Aldo really needs to go away. \n\nThat's what happens when your champion clears out your division. Every new guy who shows even a little promise gets the shot. Conor went on a more dominant run than a lot of the guys who had just got shots prior to him. There is certainly room for argument, especially the argument that top contenders should just keep fighting the champ over and over if there isn't anyone else (which is boring but valid), but to just white wash Conors record as UFC favoritism is a weak argument. \n\nNot indefensible, but weak. \n\nJust look at Mighty Mouse. You get a two fight streak in that division and you get a shot at the champ. Welterweight, a truly stacked division, you could win for half a decade and not get a shot. ", 
        "He already earned a title shot at that point. Conor only took that fight to stay active. Dana wanted him to wait.", 
        "No kidding. Knowing the UFC if Frankie did fight McGregor at 196 (155 pounds) and won, they'd STILL give the fight to Aldo", 
        "Let's not forget Aldo is a top 5 mma fighter of all time", 
        "Really?  Edit: Just to be clear. No. No hes not. Just because you started watching when conor started fighting doesnt mean nothing happened before that.", 
        "Yeah really bitch ", 
        "Was he not undefeated for 10 years?", 
        "He was but 4 years in the ufc and 4 years in the wec.  Wanderlei had a similar run in pride.  Hes a great fighter but Fedor, Anderson, George, BJ and currently Jon Jones.  Which would you remove to put aldo?", 
        "BJ", 
        "Aldo above all except Jones and Silva ", 
        "Look at who they fought. All the rest fought multiple champions except Aldo. His only big win was against Edgar and he got wrecked by Conor.", 
        "I don't think you can put Aldo over GSP. I'm a  huge Penn fan, but he's not in the top 5. And Fedor is debatable. ", 
        "Bj held 2 belts and fought open weight. Fedor had an undefeated streak as long as aldo and fought multiple champions. Aldos only big win was against Edgar", 
        "Let's be serious about Penn. He fought Machida, yes (he lost). He won the WW title, never defended it, in fact Hughes was the only WW he ever beat in the UFC. He's my all time favorite fighter, but he's not an all time top 5.\n\nFedor is probably top 5, but his record is littered with a ton of record padding, coupled with dodging the UFC after Pride collapsed are the issues I have. Not to mention the Werdum, Silva, and Hendo fights.", 
        "I'd rather see Frankie fight Connor than watch Aldo get knocked out in the first round again.  ", 
        "I was just thinking...where'd Frankie be on the all-time list? I reckon top-15.", 
        "Aldo gets the rematch.", 
        "He deserves it, but no one really wants to see it. ", 
        "Well that just isn't true", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Wow that has to be some kind of record for the most baseless assumptions in a shitpost.", 
        "Frankie gets the shot and wins the belt.", 
        "He is motivated by Nate's payday. ", 
        "He'd probably take it for free if he had to.", 
        "Ok Ali Abdel-Aziz", 
        "[**@FrankieEdgar**](https://twitter.com/FrankieEdgar):\n>[2016-03-12 23:39:11 UTC](https://twitter.com/FrankieEdgar/status/708799531215749120)\n\n>Hey [@lorenzofertitta](https://twitter.com/lorenzofertitta) [@danawhite](https://twitter.com/danawhite) give the fans what they want and what I deserve This is my time [@TheNotoriousMMA](https://twitter.com/TheNotoriousMMA) step up.. take the fight!\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4a63y7%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "Yeah Conor step up and take a risk for once! (but seriously Frankie deserves the fight if anyone)", 
        "But I thought McGregor doesn't deserve to fight Edgar?", 
        "What kind of sarcastic bullshit is this?", 
        "Not too sure but I think I remember Edgar's manager saying that.", 
        "http://www.mmafighting.com/2016/3/11/11199776/morning-report-ufc-196-conor-mcgregor-nate-diaz-miesha-tate-holly-holm-frankie-edgar-mma-news", 
        "Ali Abdel-Aziz is the furthest thing from allergic to money. The guy has done slimy shit on the chase for a dollar, so I find it hard to understand him saying that. Got a source?", 
        "No source sorry man just think I read it here a while ago.", 
        "It was Mark Henry, his boxing coach, not Ali.", 
        "Wow, not to shit on managers but that's the most bizarre, silliest thing I've heard a manager say in recent memory. ", 
        "Except it only seems that way because people never fucking read the article. He was responding to something he thought Conor said.\n\n>\"He didn't go up two weight classes,\" Henry said. \"He fought a 155-pound fighter, and Frankie has dominated that weight class. Conor couldn't even get past the first 155-pound fighter he faced. At the end of the fight, he was saying something like, \u2018I don't know if Frankie is worthy of fighting me.' I think it's the other way around. I don't think Conor is worthy of fighting Frankie.\"\n", 
        "Oh ok. Looks like I should read up and STFU more often ;-)", 
        "He was responding specifically to an implication he thought he caught from Conor saying he didn't know if Frankie was worthy (I don't know the quote he was talking about but I think he just took the comment about Aldo deserving it the wrong way) and asked why Conor, who lost against his first lightweight, was worthy while Edgar, who won that division, wasn't. \n\nTotally different context from how the multitudes of people in that thread who never read the article painted it.", 
        "Am I the only one that absolutely hates Frankie Edgar? I just find him such a boring fighter. The only reason I would watch this fight is to see Connor knock his ass out. ", 
        "I want to like the guy, but I can't stand his fighting style either. His striking style requires so much movement for little to no dividends.. I find it irritating visually.\n\nTo me, he's a more technically sound and intelligent clay guida.", 
        "You must really hate Dominique Cruz", 
        "I didn't enjoy watching him until BJJ Scout/Lawrence Kenshin's videos pointing out his strategy etc. Now I can't get enough between Cruz and the rest of the content from those two.", 
        "> His striking style requires so much movement for little to no dividends.. I find it irritating visually.\n\nIf you wrote that without mentioning a name then 99% of MMA fans would say you are almost certainly talking about Cruz. ", 
        "To each their own, I like Cruz's bumps and pivots/etc. Frankie is constant feints/circling.. I want to like it, but I don't.", 
        "Cruz is a runner. Frankie is an aggressor. ", 
        "I think Cruz is a good case study for evasive movement - although I'd have to agree with most folks, his offense is dwarfed by his ability to slip/dodge punches.\n\nI was always taught (in hockey) that a goal saved was equivalent to a goal scored.. I see value in his abilities, but I do understand why you describe it as running.", 
        "You want to encourage players not to shoot goals or throw punches? \n\nIn wrestling, when one of the opponents continuously backs up they lose points -- it's called stalling. I'd like to see that implemented in UFC for extreme cases, like Cruz. ", 
        ">You want to encourage players not to shoot goals or throw punches?\n\nNo.. I'm not sure how you came to that question, but.. in case I wasn't clear; I brought up some of what I was taught in Hockey to reference why I see value in his ability to dodge a punch.. its not meant to be a direct comparison so I wouldn't advise interpreting it as such.\n\nThat being said.. I like Cruz's movement both offensively/defensively, but I dislike Frankie's style. I might be a statistical outlier, wouldn't be the first time, nor the last.", 
        "Ah same here man. I don't hate him like you do, but he definitely irritates me. However I still like seeing the small guy beat the big guy, which he has based his career around. That's pretty cool.", 
        "I definitely respect Edgar, but I do hate watching him fight. He must be one of the least exciting all time greats in MMA. I really wanted to just walk out of the Cub/Edgar fight. It was so frustrating to see Swanson sat on for 20 minutes. The Faber fight was just a seminar for feints and circling footwork. Maybe back in the Maynard days Edgar was a ball of fire, but every time I've seen him fight, it's been a boring, disappointing, grind.", 
        "How is he boring? He Ko'd Mendes, put a beating on Cub, had a great fight against Aldo,  put on one of the greatest fights ever against Maynard,  and the list goes on. ", 
        "The Bendo fights. Tyson Griffin.", 
        "So.... 3 fights? ", 
        "The guy's got a 50% finish rate in his career. Even in his decision wins, I find him exciting. Not sure how anyone can literally *hate* watching him fight, but everyone is entitled to an opinion.", 
        "He's just 3edgy5us", 
        "Frankie has a solid fanbase, but I'm sure you aren't alone. \n\nPersonally I love the guy. Unstoppable will, always moves forward, uses technique and skill to overcome much larger opponents. Dude is slick and imo fun to watch. \n\nWatch the fight for whatever reason you want, but I'd be just as happy watching Frankie grind Conor to pulp. \n\nBut in the end, may the best martial artist win. That's what it's about.\n", 
        "Unless he gets ko'd in the first,  that's exactly what I see happening. ", 
        "I agree. Frankie keeps showing improvement in his boxing, but Conor has power and excellent standup. I hope Frankie can avoid it and win that second title though. ", 
        "Edgar deserves it more than anyone. You can't get much more clear cut as a no1 contender than him.", 
        "Aldo.", 
        "Fucking how? He got knocked out in 13 seconds. I could understand if Frankie didn't exist, but if they give it to Aldo, it's because they need to protect their pet.", 
        "How about the fact that Aldo was the reigning champion for 6 fucking years and cleared out EVERYONE in that division, including Frankie.  The UFC is probably giving it to him because they respect him more than you do, because you really can't just brush off the GOAT featherweight the second he loses, even if it was a super quick loss.", 
        "Lol, the UFC respects money, that's it. Instant rematches are for controversial title fights, like close decisions that were probably rigged for the marketing value anyway. Not for somebody jumping into a straight left.", 
        "They respect money and they respect their stars.  Anderson's loss to Weidman was just as embarassing and he got an instant rematch.  Aldo will get his.", 
        "If he has a rematch 'clause' in his contract he will. Aldo was never that much of a star in the first place. He couldn't speak English, was always getting hurt and pulling out and would occasionally put on some safe performances. He's a great fighter to watch, but I doubt the UFC were thrilled with him as a champion.", 
        "Conor doesn't wanna fight Frankie. If he gets wrestle fucked and is 0-2 his last two fights he will lose a TON of hype. The safer fight is Aldo, and even that is a risk.  ", 
        "People that say Conor doesn't want Frankie is ridiculous, the only reason he wouldn't want him is if he saw a bigger purse elsewhere. He hasn't ducked anyone, they generally duck him. Stepping up to fight RDA then taking a former LW with an obvious weight, reach and ground game superiority, on two weeks notice... yeah that sounds like a guy ducking a fight.\n\n Nate wasn't prepared, but everyone one knows he's a tough son of a bitch and was never going to be a lay-up for Mcgregor. Situation reversed and Conor's phone rang for a fight, you know he'd take it too.\n\nI hope he does take Frankie and lights him up.", 
        "Conor is a fish outta water when he gets on the ground. And Frankie is pretty damn good at getting people down. It's a high risk fight and if he were to lose back to back the aura of him being an elite guy goes away.\n\nI wouldn't be surprised if he's being pushed to fight Aldo to give him more time to get his ground game up to par. ", 
        "He's scared? I give Conor more credit than that.", 
        "No doubt Conor has done stuff most fighters never will and he deserves a ton of credit. But in his own head he knows that his ground game is not up to par and that Frankie will be a much harder fight than Aldo. ", 
        "All the more reason Frankie should fight him. ", 
        "I agree but apparently Conor gets to pick his own fights and last I heard they were leaning towards an Aldo rematch at UFC 200. ", 
        "You must have missed the latest: http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/ufc-conor-mcgregor-frankie-edgar-dana-white-fans-want-to-see-031116", 
        "Conor is in a must win situation if he wants to sustain his rich life.\n\n", 
        "People will watch his fights even if its just for the crazy. Its never going away.  Chael lost consecutive title fights yet still coached the ultimate fighter and got a title fight up a weight class", 
        "Aldo winning won't be the end of the world for Conor, he'll get an immediate rematch. ", 
        "Not so sure about that. Say he fights Aldo and loses at UFC 200. That would be back to back loses. No way that warrants an immediate rematch. ", 
        "Of course it does. Conor won the first fight, Aldo the second, we'll need a third fight to set the record straight. I'm sure Aldo won't refuse that PPV money. ", 
        "And Frankie just has to sit on his ass once again? ", 
        "If I was Frankie's manager, I'd book him a fight with Joe Duffy (at whatever weight class) in Ireland. After beating him up, Frankie should go full Sonnen on the mic and call out McGregor. \n\nI feel like he'd get the McGregor fight faster that way than by beating every top 15 fighter in the Featherweight division. ", 
        "This is honestly the thing to do.  Theres a reason chael got every fight he wanted despite never winning a title", 
        "Getting kind of annoying if I'm honest", 
        "Yeah I don't want to see this because tbh Edgar will prob win then we get Aldo/Edgar..and I want Aldo/Mcgregor :( I just hope I get to see Mcgregor/Aldo 2 at some point in my life even if it's not for the title", 
        "For Real,  wasn't it ur time when you had that strap ", 
        "Ya why don't more guys just shut up and get fucked over in silence! Only Conor can be loud and get whatever he wants!", 
        "Edgar isn't getting fucked over. He fought to try to earn a title three times. He won the first one in an extremely controversial decision, and lost the other two times. He's had more opportunities to earn a title than many fighters. ", 
        "You're going to say his title win was controversial, but not mention that BOTH of his loses to Henderson were controversial?\n\nAccording to mmadecisions, 7 members of the media gave it to Edgar, and 2 gave it a draw. None had Henderson winning that fight.\n\nHe has EARNED more opportunities to fight for a title than many fighters is what you're trying to say.", 
        "Frankie has earned and won enough title fights that at this point the UFC should just have a Frankieweight division. ", 
        "Right? and if he gets passed up or a smaller pay day people will drop \"Well he should market himself more..duurrrrrr\" ", 
        "Squeaky wheel gets the grease. Nate's outburst paid off.", 
        "However Nate's outburst was original.  I agree with some of the above comments Franky sounds annoying.  They are trying way too hard and they sound like they hired a dorky cut rate smack talker to help write a script to get their way into this fight.  Between contrived \"make the fight the fans want to see\" and \"Conner doesn't deserve to fight Franky\" yuck!  Aldo is a monster and I would like to see him get another go at it.  I'm not saying I don't want to see this fight but Conner has to fight them both anyway, my preference is to give one greatest champions this sport has ever know another shot at the go.", 
        "Naw answering the phone and being down to fight paid off. Edgar had his chance but some how had just got injured right before they called. Give Frankie the fight so he will shut up and Conor will get a nice KO put himself back in superfight talk.  ", 
        "Tbh wasn't Nate supposed to be the easiest of the remaining fighters for Conor after RDA dropped out. \n\nI felt it had less to do with what Nate said, but more to do with what the matchmakers thought would keep the conor hype/money train going", 
        "No way. Faber or BJ would have been easy. Nate was a completely new challenge: a southpaw boxer with reach.", 
        "Nate's outburst was off a big win on a fox card with millions watching.. not on twitter", 
        "Edgar has been on Fox calling for the McGregor fight too :) ", 
        "It was also censored, though. And it's not like Conor doesn't cruise social media.", 
        "the censoring made it better, people were like wow they bleeped that out, i wonder what he said, I remember the uncensored version was at the top of r/mma for a while", 
        "Well...for obvious reasons Edgar is not on a FOX card is he? ", 
        "I think they offered him fights, but he openly stated he will turn down any fight and just wait for Conor.  Kind of what Woodley is doing, but the longer he waits the less interesting the match becomes.  Its basically Edgar yelling at a wall, its not playful, or like banter where there are two parties going back and forth.  Conor isn't really responding or even looking at Edgar, so it looks like a crazy old guy yelling at the sky.", 
        "Edgar isn't in Woodley's position because it's quite clear that it's Edgar or Aldo. It's hardly Edgar's fault that Aldo was the only FW champion and so has a very good claim to a rematch and fighting probably wouldn't change that.", 
        "Edgar could've been the FW champ, he fought Aldo and lost by decision, a UD.  I just feel like people are worried the Conor meal ticket is waning and they're in a rush to cash in before he gets 2-3 losses in a row.", 
        "Edgar was calling for the fight before Diaz beat him.  The only really he stopped for a while was the RDA fight had been announced", 
        "Frankie is one of two fucking guys who gets the next Conor payday. \n\nWhat are you talking about. \n\nOf course he's going to wait. You act like Frankie is petitioning for a Robbie Lawler fight behind 6 other guys. \n\nI know your hero looks like a badass just ignoring Frankie, but considering his options after getting spanked by a dude who was getting drunk on a boat in Mexico a week before the fight, it's beginning to look less and less like Conor wanting money fights, and more and more like Conor really is just avoiding Frankie. ", 
        "I'm actually not a huge fan of Conor.  He was a person who used his height to his advantage and dominate his division with that tool.  He is still considered a GOAT for what he did to the sport.  But I think a lot of people slept on Nate.  People cite Conor's strong boxing background because it was where he developed or first moved into combat sports, but if you were to look at Nate he has been regularly boxing/sparring with the world's best in boxing.  Literally some of the best boxers in the world bring in the Diaz brothers for sparring partners.  Diaz is also a BJJ blackbelt that has rolled with the best of them, couple that with his regular conditioning, he was a real monster that people slept on.  Its not like Jones where he got fat between fights, Nate stayed fit, not fight fit but still fit enough.\n\n\nWhat I meant in the first post is that its like a TJ vs. Cruz situation.  TJ just shutdown and didn't really respond so there wasn't hype for the fight.  Conor isn't really acknowledging Edgar at all, so it looks like Edgar just blends into the group of 3-5 guys calling out Conor.  It sucks, but Edgar should've just kept in shape and kept it really light and just wait for the chance of RDA dropping out of the fight.  ", 
        "Dude, and knocking out Chad Mendes in the first isn't a big win? ", 
        "it is, but it was completely overshadowed after McGergor-Aldo, ", 
        "Regardless, if Nate's big win allows him to whine and complain as you imply, then Frankie's big win surely does. ", 
        "he was hardly whining and complaining, He just swore a lot and said he was the real fight, the fight the fans wanted to see", 
        "He was right about that ", 
        "Frankie is probably less concerned with annoying redditors and more concerned with...I dunno, his livelihood and competition. \n\nBut I may be wrong here. ", 
        "That's a bold statement bro", 
        "Isn't UFC 200 going to be big enough without having to push for Aldo?\n\nAs a blatant Frankie fan, he aint getting any younger, and got to guess that if Aldo doesn't lunge into Conor's left and survives first round and beats Conor, that means Conor Aldo III would have to be on the cards\n\nFrankie next and should Conor win, he can fight Aldo at 155 - hopefully nobody be complaining about that\n\n", 
        "Give this proud Bahranian the chance to do battle with the Irish. ", 
        "Hopefully Kavanaugh thanks the very same Bahraini prince for all the SBG funding at some point in this saga too. ", 
        "I love Frankie but I hate how desperate he has come off lately", 
        "Would you prefer he doesn't ask for the fight? The guy is continually passed over by the UFC as of late, so he's doing what he needs to do to try and get the fight he deserves. That's not desperate, it's necessary.", 
        "He wants to cash in before he retires. ", 
        "Probably it's because he doesn't have very long left and really wants to be a two division champ", 
        "Lol, step \"up\" :P", 
        "Let's fight , this would be good for the sport !", 
        "God damn he's desperate..", 
        "Poor Frankie. Great fighter who just doesn't sell.", 
        "I wonder why that is. He's really great, looks great in the ring too. Why people don't like him? ", 
        "forgettable, can't remember any of his fights, don't even know who he last fought, and his personality sucks", 
        "Edgar Maynard 2 was one of the best fights I've ever seen and it was fight of the year. You must be new here. ", 
        "LOL. He knocked out Mendes in the 1st round in his last fight!", 
        "I think they do. Hes just not vocal and interesting. Hard to build up his fights.  If somebody asked you to describe his personality not fighting style it would be hard to do.", 
        "This is getting a little annoying", 
        "I mean I like Frankie well enough, but I'm starting to hope he gets the fight and gets knocked out just because of whoever he put in charge of his twitter account.", 
        "Not happening.", 
        ">team aldo flair", 
        "the thing is, i feel like they're neck and neck as far as deserving the next title shot is concerned. i would not be displeased if either got the shot and i would only be disappointed for the other regardless of who got it.\n\nBut the way frankie tells it (or his annoying ass manager, whoever), you wouldnt think that aldo beat him pretty decisively and was a 10-year reigning champ.\n\n\nmuch love to frankie though, got mad respect for the guy. ", 
        "> and was a 10-year reigning champ.\n\nman its like Aldo fans don't even know the guys record and just get caught up in the hype.\n\nHe wasn't a champ for 10 years, he won his WEC title in 2009 and lost his UFC title in 2015. Thats 6 years, not this 10 years bullshit.", 
        "undefeated in 10 years against solid competition. Relax. yahoo.", 
        "If Aldo doesn't deserve an immediate rematch, then no one deserves an immediate rematch. ", 
        "This is what I'm saying. Frankie saying he deserves this for a string of 5 wins? Try going undefeated since 2006 and ALSO whooping Frankie's ass at UFC 156. If someone deserves this fight its a long time champ who we really didn't get to see fight because he took a big punch early. Not to discount Conor's punch, because it was perfectly executed, but we really didn't get to see those two get after it. ", 
        "I wouldn't call what Aldo did \"whooping Frankie's ass\". It was a close fight. ", 
        "can we just get a thread to dump all the frankie call outs, see like 3 a day", 
        "Give Frankie the Fight!", 
        "He's not wrong. this is the fight the fans want and Edgar has earned ~~his beating~~ the shot.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I think Conor would die if he ever tried to make 135.", 
        "Yeah haha no way he could make that cut. Maybe if he cut himself off at the knee haha", 
        "I honestly just want to see this fight so I never have to hear either of them mention it again at this point ", 
        "I gotta give him credit for putting in so much effort to try to get this thing to happen. ", 
        "another gazelle for the lion to feast upon! he he he he he!", 
        "I think both guys deserve the shot, but I want Frankie to have it first. Aldo should have more time off and Frankie is considerably older.", 
        "Probably a better match up for McGregor.  UFC can't afford to have him lose twice in a row.  ", 
        "After seeing him rocked by The Bully and another dude (i forgot) a couple of times, I wonder how Frankie would fare against that left hand of Conor.\n\n", 
        "Frankie's four losses have been via decision. .....am sure he'll do fine against Conor, he just has to survive a round or two", 
        "I wanna see the frankie fight but the reality is that its just not the money fight", 
        "Theres much conversation about how wins/loses against Frankie/Jose could effect Conor's career... How badly do you guys think another knock out defeat would damage Aldo's career? ", 
        "Give him the fight.", 
        "Frankie, he don't want that! All you have to do is make him be inefficient! Team frankie! ", 
        "Frankie needs to up his shit-talking game to get it happening. Frankie is too nice at the moment.", 
        "If Ronda was supposed to get an immediate rematch then Aldo can get one too.", 
        "You have to admit . . . That massive left hand vs, that massive right hand would be interesting.\n\nSomething would have to break.", 
        "\n\nEdgar needs to learn how to trash talk. Feel free to hire me Edgar il write your tweets!", 
        "\"Frankie just wouldn't shut up.\"", 
        "franky need to call conner a fake and talk shit about his suits and how he lost to nate. Him begging is not something that interests me ", 
        "I really hope Frank gets the opportunity.", 
        "\nFrankie needs to chill out and hope McGregor gives him the fight.\nI feel like Edgar vs McGregor be like Edgar vs Swanson though...", 
        "I'm guessing the UFC is not too keen on putting Conor against another wrestler after he got dominated by Mendes.", 
        "it's just not the way to sell a fight against mcgregor. begging is not going to impress the casuals", 
        "Is Frankie the fight the fans want? Is it REALLY?", 
        "If you also watch fake wrestling? No.\n\nIf you have been following MMA for years and have trained and  competed in some form of grappling, wrestling or martial arts? Yes.", 
        "Well I wonder which of those options the UFC brass will go for...", 
        "They already have Conor, so the WWE fans are already on board. ", 
        "He won't get it. UFC rankings don't mean anything.  If you are an Interim Champ you are really a #1 contender with a guaranteed title shot. Other than that you are not guaranteed shit. It's a shame. ", 
        "Would rather see Conor vs Aldo II. And hope it goes past 2-3 rounds.", 
        "Conor has to accept a fight with Aldo or Frankie at this point. Sadly, I think it will be Aldo because he sees it as an easier fight.   \nPoor Frankie.", 
        "he fought at 170 last minute couldn't do cardio to bulk up to only 168 and he gassed and nate finished and he takes easy fights? nate had an easier time he just did some conditioning and let him get tired lol", 
        "Conor doesn't always take easy fights but after being humbled by a guy with no training camp...a guy who was sippin' drinks on the beach in cabo the week before, Conor might take the path that minimizes the chances of 2 consecutive losses.   \n   \nBut MAN, you sound like suuuuch a defensive nuthugger. He lost to a 155er that he chose to fight, had 2 wins in his last 5 fights and didn't have a training camp.  McGregor didn't even last as long as Marcus Davis did lol. Conor should be embarrassed for talking SO much shit and then not even showing up in shape. ", 
        "well nate was over 170 ez conor never reached 170 he wouldn't even reach 168 if he did cardio what do you think happens when you do cardio ? you lose weight he had to gain it and fast lol . skill wise nate is worse than conor except on the ground but you can keep being delusional  and pretend that he didn't get his ass wooped for a round an a half ... I agree that conor should have been in shape and he was for 155 but not 170 and that's on him for taking the fight at 170  He was just too cocky but he had a card to save since nate wouldnt go down to 155 lol\n", 
        "Nate was over 170 because his ass was on vacation and not in a fight camp.   \n   \nConor was prepping for the biggest fight of his life and gassed in a round and a half to a guy who wasn't even training.  Conor also walked around at 172 pounds when he was finishing his training camp at Featherweight. Who's to say he didn't cut from 178 to 168 (10lbs isnt much to cut) just to show he could come in under weight. \n   \nI know your username is McGregor and you're on Team McGregor but take a step back and think about how goofy you sound. Conor isn't even making this many excuses for himself, why do you have to? ", 
        "lol he didn't cut weight lmao he said he didn't but I guess I am just a fan boy. It was conor's fault to take it at 170 and he deserved to lose! You know how much time and work it takes to build proper muscles if you want to gain weight and still have conditioning if you ever did sports that is all ^^", 
        "He walks around at 172 for a fight at 145. Him coming in at 168 is no excuse. ", 
        "riiiiiight", 
        "Speaking on the Jim Rome show, Sonnen said: \"He\u2019s a very big guy. I was impressed with how big he is.\n\n\"I was like \u2018Conor, what do you weigh?\u2019, he said \u2018I\u2019m around 172 pounds\u2019. He\u2019s got to be 145 pounds in eight days!\u201d\n\nIm not sure what your point is anymore...", 
        "he didn't cut thats the point lol  He simply didn't cut the water weight and rehydrate it 24 hours later how can he be 172 when he didnt cut lmao dum dumb", 
        "http://www.mmamania.com/2016/3/12/11212670/conor-mcgregor-was-only-a-few-pounds-heavier-than-usual-against-nate\n\nhis conditioning coach said he didnt cut so why would I believe you over him drop it pls ur wrong his weight was 168 with out cutting ", 
        "Theres more money in the aldo fight because the casuals dont know who frankie is.", 
        "Well Frankie speaks english so he can do press and educate the public about who he is.  Frankie can go on the Money Channel with Conor and sell the fight.  If Frankie can get on Espn for 5 minutes next to Conor Frankie gain a bunch of new fans.\n\nAldo on the other hand can't do press, a show that isn't about MMA is going to be reluctant to book someone who needs a translator.", 
        "Casuals will buy the fight regardless of his opponent", 
        "Actually the one thing I like about McGregor is that he doesn't take easy fights. And should he face Frankie, I can see him losing 2 in a row.", 
        "That's what Conor does? Take easy fights?", 
        "Pretty much. Diego Brand\u00e3o in Ireland, Dennis Siver after Poirier, Nate off the beach in Cabo as a replacement for RDA (OK, that last one didn't work out as planned). There is a pattern there, when McGregor is in a \"situation\". Not saying Aldo is easy, but he has trained to fight Aldo for a looong ass time. Frankie is likely a worst match up for him and a new opponent altogether.", 
        "He hasn't before but after being humbled for taking any and every fight, don't be surprised if he chooses the easier of 2 options. The guy's a businessman and knows how devastating 2 consecutive losses would be to his brand.", 
        "So Aldo is the easier fight?", 
        "Hmm, a muay thai guy who he knocked out in 13 seconds or a wrestlefucker with rock solid boxing who is known for grinding out decisions. Yeah, Aldo's the easier fight, especially once you consider McGregor's ground game.", 
        "I think McGregor did well enough against Mendes. Plus all we got to see was a few moments of what Aldo could do against McGregor. That was a great punch but that doesn't mean Aldo would be an easy fight. ", 
        "comparing Chad and Frankie is dreadfully simplistic\n\nFrankie's feints footwork and general boxing mixed up with level changes and ridiculous top control and non stop cardio are a huge puzzle for Conor to solve, and vice versa for Frankie with Conor too.", 
        "I agree that neither fight is easy. However, an out of shape Chad Mendes took Conor down and held him there, and Frankie has wrestling that is basically on par with Chad's. Do you think that Aldo is a more difficult fight?", 
        "Idk. I just think that if you put Aldo vs Frankie, Aldo is the better fighter. I dont think 1 punch negates how good Aldo is. ", 
        "It's not just difficulty. It's a matter of scenarios. If Conor loses to Aldo, it's a trilogy in the making. Instant classic, they can even make a DVD about the Aldo x McGregor rivalry. Plus, it's bound to be a stand up fight, so either way it will showcase McGregor's best asset (his striking). \n\nFrankie is a completely different animal. Look at his last three fights. If he wins, he'll humiliate McGregor. After this Diaz debacle, the last thing McGregor and his camp (and the UFC) want is for him to be manhandled by a little guy casual fans probably never heard of. ", 
        "Looking at styles and the fact that Conor knows he beat him before, I'd say so. ", 
        "I can't understand which fans are looking for this fight? I'd vastly rather see him fight Aldo again.", 
        "They would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English and was a 13-second bust in the most highly anticipated fight in UFC history. That's a problem. Give it to Frankie, who just knocked out the beast that is Mendes in the first period (when Mendes actually had a training camp).", 
        "I can't understand anyone who would rather see the Aldo rematch over this. There is no hype left in that rematch. 13 seconds.", 
        "Aldo's record (18 fight win streak prior to his loss to McGregor), and extremely long reign as featherweight champion justifies his rematch. Pretty sure the only people calling for a fight with Edgar are Americans rooting for their countryman.", 
        "edgars 5 fight win streak with Ko of mendes is extremely deserving of a title shot. I don't see aldo having a chance. He was mentally beaten before even fighting last time, how do you imagine he will be now ?", 
        "Amazing wrestler about to be a 2 division champ, a veteran, and a win streak are the main ones. ", 
        "I'm afraid I've always found him rather a dull fighter. Look how many decisions he's got on his record, I can never get interested in fighters who go for decision wins.", 
        "Most fight of the night bonuses in UFC history, 3 other performance of the night bonuses, finished 3 of his last 4 fights.", 
        "Also finished 3 of his last 8 fights, or 4 of his last 12.\n", 
        "He's 50/50 for decisions and finishes...\n\nSource: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frankie_Edgar", 
        "Ok fair enough. I agree he is an exceptional athlete, I just can't get interested in his fight style, which is at least in part lay-and-pray/keep busy enough to get a decision.", 
        "Oh your opinion is valid and jose is a very exciting fighter. No shade homie", 
        "You don't speak for me frankie!!!", 
        "It's been less than one week since Mcgregor got manhandled....", 
        "Cain is getting his rematch. WEIDMAN is getting his rematch. With that precedent set, Aldo deserves his.", 
        "Frankie beats this kid, therefore this fight ain't happening.  2 losses in a row and McGregor completely losses his draw, UFC lose a lot of money.\n\nGive him Aldo who's proving he can't handle McGregor's power, and McGregor gets a 1st or 2nd round K.O. and $$$ for all.", 
        "At this point all I want is for frankie to stay salty over never getting the shot", 
        "...why?", 
        "For the sake of comedy.", 
        "What fans though ? the hardcores know about Edgar the 300k who watched him fight Bj don't care. ", 
        "Prediction:  It's going to be McGregor v. Aldo because the UFC knows that Frankie has a better chance of beating Conor.", 
        "To be featured in UFC 200, you better bring in a lot of views.  Aldo brings in the Nation of Brazil while Edgar brings regular fight fans?  Those fight fans will still tune in to see Aldo vs McGregor.  It's simply a business decision if Edgar doesn't get to fight McGregor because he doesn't bring in a nation or huge demographic", 
        "Let Conor get his mojo back with an Aldo win. Put Frankie on the same card and have him insult Conor. This will build up the future fight more.", 
        "So you admit Frankie is the tougher opponent? Let's see the best fight -- the fans Deserve that", 
        "UFC needs Conor more than anything and for Conor to have casuals, he needs to win fights. In fact, we need Conor to continue his success with mainstream audience for everyone to do better financially.", 
        "At least you're honest about where you stand. ", 
        "I wouldn't take Aldo so lightly though, everyone is talking like Aldo will be easy but he is still dangerous ", 
        "I think Aldos gone the way of many post USADA Brazilians but I could be wrong.", 
        "I'm a UFC fan....I don't want it because it sounds like a boring fight", 
        "Aldo Mcgregor rematch much more interesting. Edgar lost badly to Aldo.", 
        "Marketing the same fight a third time when the last one was a bust? Please no.", 
        "Mcgregor brings in 1.5 million ppv's, he's going to be fighting on every card and it won't be against somebody that's going to wrestle fuck him. ", 
        "Aldo was KO'd in 13 seconds. Do I want to see a rematch sure. Do I want to see it now. Not really. Im more interested in a Frankie Edgar fight. He's beaten Cub, Mendes,Faber all top guys and decisively. I get that Aldo beat Edgar but cmon that was a little while back.  ", 
        "hardest fight for mcgregor. what kinsa 'champ' runs from the toughest opponent. if its about the money guess hes just a paper champ.", 
        "How is he running.. Jesus, you think RDA/Diaz were easier than Edgar?. McGregor always said he was going for the LW belt once he got the featherweight. Frankie didn't get a shot to fight him but tough shit. McGregor is defending now and you can't deny Aldo deserves another shot after being the title holder for 6 years.. I want to see the Edgar fight but Aldo does deserve it, the running shit is so stupid jesus", 
        "fuck that frankie's a pointfighter. i wanna see him fight aldo, the rematch is going to be something to behold", 
        "They would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English and was a 13-second bust in the most highly anticipated fight in UFC history. That's a problem. Give it to Frankie, who just knocked out the beast that is Mendes in the first period (when Mendes actually had a training camp).", 
        "eh, aldo has enough of a history as a long reigning champion that setting up this fight wouldn't be an issue. he lost, but we didn't really get to see his skills vs conors true skills- even conor said it should have been longer. and yes, this would be the third time advertised but only the second fight, there is a difference. \n\nfrankie has no power and literally just keeps busy and either point fights or takes you down and holds you there. it would literally be the worst way for conor, still the ufc's golden goose, to lose- to a pointfighter in a fight he took no damage in. ", 
        "\"eh\" is right. They can make it work -- but it's not ideal. Frankie is something new for people to get excited about and a real threat to Conor. \n\nFrankie just knocked out Mendes -- end of debate on the \"power\" issue. ", 
        "no one has ever really gotten hyped over a frankie fight. his best wins were over a has been bj penn whose OWN most recent significant win (at the time) was over a never was Diego Sanchez", 
        "Conor fans are scared Frankie is going to outclass Conor.", 
        "and in the context of mma scoring rules, that's a very likely possibility. however, the ufc doesn't exist in a vacuum- they don't want frankie as a champion, he's got no personality and doesn't sell fights. at least aldo has a nation behind him, and the rematch will make a ton of money. ", 
        "It's Frankie's time -- get use to it.", 
        "Have some self-respect, Frank. ", 
        "I love Frankie but I hate how desperate he has come off lately", 
        "Frankie's never been a trash talker, so he's doing his best to get a red panty night complete with the 145 belt", 
        "Frankie is correct, but for sure stop whining constantly.", 
        ">This is my time\n\nDude has lost more title chances than Fannie Mae", 
        "McGregor has to do all the promo work because bum Edgar is too dumb to promote himself.", 
        "I gotta say the more Frankie talks the more I want to see Aldo get the fight", 
        "I'd rather see Aldo v Holloway", 
        "I like Frankie but this comes across as very entitled. Fuck Aldo but he's first in line for the rematch.\n\nAlso, Frankie's twitter avatar is ugly af.", 
        "They would have to market the same fight a THIRD time with a guy who doesn't speak English and was a 13-second bust in the most highly anticipated fight in UFC history. That's a problem. Give it to Frankie, who just knocked out the beast that is Mendes in the first period (when Mendes actually had a training camp).", 
        "Edgar will destroy Conor, that is why Conor is so reluctant to commit to this fight. The difference between fighting Aldo or Edgar at ufc 200 in financial terms will be negligible. People pay to watch Conor fight so his potential earnings at ufc 200 will be unaffected.\n\nConor knows that one more loss and he slips all the way down the corporate ladder. Like snakes and ladders. ", 
        "Edgar brings nothing to the table financially. At least Aldo has a country behind him wanting to get the belt back. ", 
        "Avoid the best because it won't make as much money. This is what the UFC has turned into, the WWE.", 
        "Thank you for this insight.", 
        "You really don't think Frankie will beat Conor with ease?", 
        "Yeah because it's not like Conor can knock him out with one punch or anything like that..", 
        "I think if anybody is going to win with ease it will be Conor. If Frankie wins, it will be a hard slog.", 
        "I think it's best if Dana lets Conor hos who he's fighting that way also and Frankie can't hate Dana for picking one over the other", 
        "I want them to give him the fight just so he shuts up about it.", 
        "We get it Frankie. But it's not your choice. You can yell for it all you want but you might not get anything out of spite. Let the cards fall where they will.  ", 
        "The squeaky wheel...", 
        "Best answer I've heard yet. ", 
        "when you've dedicated your entire life to something, and its going to be how you put your kids through college, you probably don't have a \"whatever\" attitude about it", 
        "Agreed. But you also have to be calculated in your attack. When has talking from an emotional place ever been the best tactic? People don't focus on long term chess moves. They just want to checkmate. ", 
        "Its a tricky thing, in a sense Nate got the Conor fight with that last call out, so I see why he'd try it. He wants a title fight and the guy holding the belt isn't strictly staying in one place.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Frankie has been in line for that belt for a long time. He's not begging, he's fighting for what he deserves.", 
        "Actually, I want to watch the Aldo fight.", 
        "Maybe you missed it? It was really short so that's possible.", 
        "theyll give it to aldo but hes next in line.", 
        "Aldo rematch is in the cards if you ask me... ", 
        "Please not another 5 months of marketing the same fight for a third time. ", 
        "Didn't Edgar turn down a fight like 20 some odd days ago from Mcgregor?", 
        "Because he had no choice, he claims he was injured and had no prior warning.", 
        "It was also at lightweight.", 
        "You think he was wrong to turn down the fight when he was injured, on ten days notice, and when the belt wouldn't have been on the line?", 
        "I don't see why Aldo and Edgar are getting shit on for turning down a fight with McGregor because it isn't for the belt, short notice and they are injured / out of shape.\n\nJust makes no sense to fight him without a belt on the line for them.", 
        "You mean a fight on 10 days notice while recovering from an injury at a weight class he doesn't fight in and not for the belt? ", 
        "Check your facts Edgar was the Lightweight King and arguably the GOAT of that division who had his belt stolen from him by the judges then lost fairly to Aldo.", 
        "He was also massively undersized and has been talking about going to BW in the future. My facts are fine thanks.", 
        "And yet still took down everyone and beat them...... I don't think they are.", 
        "I really don't see what point you're trying to make. Frankie has no reason to go up to LW. He said he doesn't care about fighting Conor and simply wants to fight for the belt. Frankie is my favorite fighter of all time. I've been following him before he was in the UFC and have met him multiple times. He grew up like 30 minutes from me. Just because he was the LW King doesn't mean he wasn't massively undersized. He was successful at LW because of his skill, speed, and heart. ", 
        "I don't think he should fight a non title bout, injured or short notice. But saying he doesn't fight at Lightweight when the majority of his career was there is laughable. Your problem with my questions are the same as mine they have no context and are minorly leaving out details that make them utterly wrong and we are both anal bastards.", 
        "While injured, on ten days notice, not for the title.\n\nSo he shouldn't get the title shot he earned for that? That's stupid.", 
        "\"Step down.\"\n\nFTFY", 
        "I'm a fan, I don't want it.  Frankie has a ton heart,but much like GSP I know I'll be getting 5 full rounds of repetitive techniques that don't get the job done. It's like the NASCAR of MMA , pretty sure he's the winning driver and just watching to see if he wrecks", 
        "Maybe you missed the mendes fight?", 
        "You know what, you guys?  Frankie Edgar's tweet which was written by his scam artist manager makes a great point.", 
        "Cecil Peoples approves.", 
        "\"I try to reward the fighter trying to finish the fight and leg kicks certainly don't do that.\" -Cecil Peoples", 
        "Mr Peoples needs a Pat Barry to the leg", 
        "I'd settle for a Barboza if Pat's busy.", 
        "Or a Rizzo", 
        "Aldo'll also do..", 
        "Get this guy in the UFC already ", 
        "He would get destroyed. Not even top 10.", 
        "What evidence do you have to support this?", 
        "His wild style. He is way too open and takes too many shots to hang with top 10 ufc lightweights. Look at the top 10 in the ufc and honestly ask yourself if you think he could beat any of them. ", 
        "I have only ever seen him fight in this gif, so I don't know how representative this little tid bit is of his career, but he did seem sloppy. He was eating a lot of shots to land those kicks.", 
        "He can be really stand-and-bang sometimes.  That being said,  if he wanted to fight intelligently,  I'm sure there's a few top lightweights who would be vulnerable to those leg kicks. ", 
        "Because its obvious just like every Strikeforce, Pride, anf WEC fighter couldn't possible hang in the UFC...... oh wait. ", 
        "PrideFC is the only one that didn't pan out so well. Crowd favorites, but not dominant performers like WEC and Strikeforce. ", 
        "Rampage held the belt, but mostly I think they came in past their prime more than didn't have the talent.  ", 
        "Rampage, Henderson, Shogun, Anderson, Overeem.... Do I really need to continue on the list?", 
        ">PrideFC is the only one that didn't pan out so well\n\n4 out of 10 in the current UFC HW top 10 rankings, including the champ, fought in Pride. \n\n2 of the top ten in the LHW\n\n3 of the top ten at MW, 4 if you include DREAM\n\nPride ended 10 years ago....\n\n\n", 
        "Thanks for this. I knew they had pretty good success, but aside from the rampage and shoguns titles I was blanking. ", 
        "well, its also not fair to say \"pride didn't pan out\" while strikeforce did, considering they weren't really running at the same time and coker brought in a lot of Pride guys, werdum and reem for example.\n\nAlso when talking about Pride most people don't include things like DREAM, inoki new years shows or k1 heros etc but they shared a lot of fighters, especially after Pride ended. If you include people who fought in those orgs you start to include machida, jacare etc\n\nof Pride guys that came over you have at least 4 champs (page, shogun, big nog, werdum) that i can think of right now. 5 if you want to include the GOAT Silva. \n\nI mean, you can try to shit on Wanderlai if you like but dude is an absolute legend, win or lose he scored liek 7 or 8 fight of the nights in the 9 or 10 fights he had in his second UFC run. He fought in UFC before Pride but obviously made his mark in Pride. Dan Hendo too. People shit on him now but until his recent run he could be considered the greatest American MMA fighter of all time. Now jon jones has probably taken that title from him but still, there was a time when it would be hard to say he wasn't the greatest american fighter ever. he would clearly be in the top 5 if we were talking \"all time\", at least until recently since he is tacking on losses to his career last 3 years. I mean,they were entertaining wars for sure tho.\n\n\n\nOvereem very well might win the belt. If nothing else he has consistently been ranked.\n\nRegardless, its really not a fair comparison considering Pride ended so long ago and so many guys fought in both, Randleman and Coleman for example, both UFC champs. Even Chuck fought in Pride. It was a different era, PRIDE produced some of the all time greatest fights and had so many good guys in the org it was crazy.", 
        "Nog also won the title. And Anderson Silva fought in Pride, though with middling success.", 
        "I predict you get down voted before people finish reading your comment. I was almost guilty.", 
        "He just got suspended by the Colorado State Athletic Commission for his backflip off the cage celebration, deemed \"unsportsmanlike conduct\".", 
        "Get him a wikipedia page first", 
        "The promotion is basically Justin. I love watching this kid fight, he would be fun to watch in the UFC but he gets hit a ton. I wish he would go to the UFC to reach his full potential. ", 
        "Hahah he probably makes more there. Maybe if he developed an Scottish accent and tried mimicking Arnold schwartzeneggar he might get sometbing from the ufc", 
        "Don't forget to get tons of chest and belly tattoos ", 
        "Spirit animals ftw", 
        "Seriously... how long is his WSOF contract.", 
        "Two more fights after this one. He's planning on getting them all done in 2016. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[Oh Charlie, What are you trying to tell me?](http://i.imgur.com/Kw3ic.jpg)", 
        "Holy shit my phone was in my pocket going nuts.  Apologies.", 
        "I was watching this wondering whether or not he makes enough money as LW champ in WSOF and sponsors (he gave shout outs to like 5 at the end) that going to the UFC isn't as attractive. I think this is the second time I've watched him fight, but he'd probably be middle of the pack in a super tough LW UFC division and have to give up a lot of the sponsors.\n\nI'm no analyst though, just something I was thinking about as he chopped that leg off.", 
        "Couldn't be more incorrect, he's expressed interest in signing with the ufc.", 
        "[WSOF champ Justin Gaethje: I won't take a pay cut to go to the UFC](http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2016/3/9/11186162/wsof-lightweight-champion-justin-gaethje-mma-news-undefeated-Brian-Foster-title)", 
        "If you don't think he's trying to sterling his way to a good contact you're crazy. So is he if he's happy with a cap of 80k show money.", 
        "Nate Diaz got paid edit: ~~40k~~ 20k to show in his fight before Connor... So 80k to show for a newcomer that a lot of people don't think would be in the top 5 is a bit much. \n\nEdit: That's 4x what Nate Diaz got paid to show before connor, highly doubt Gaethje would be able to command that. ", 
        "That's not what Diaz got paid.  His manager said it was in the 120k range.", 
        "Nate got 500k for the fight.", 
        "Got a source for that? ", 
        "[Here you go.](http://www.mmamania.com/2016/3/7/11173512/ufc-196-payouts-salaries-conor-mcgregor-banks-1-million-nate-diaz-holly-holm-500k-mma)", 
        "We aren't talking about what he got paid for the Conor fight. And that was only what was disclosed anyway. ", 
        "He only got that because of his shitty negotiating skills, that's not his real value, he wanted the bulk of his money up front", 
        "I know this is the published figure and I know that it has been talked about by media and fans and fighters so much that it has almost become an agreed upon fact but Nate most certainly did not get paid 20k to show for his fight against Michael Johnson.\n\nWhether he was paid a chunk of upfront money - as some have said - or he got a large undisclosed bonus, he got paid well over six figures for that fight, win or lose.\n\nWe should stop using his published show money as a point of comparison in a discussion of fighter salary.\n\nWith that said, your point about Gaethje is on point. He would be very lucky to get 80 & 80 from the UFC if he were to sign with them. Sure, his earning potential is somewhat capped outside of the UFC but unless he were to have a successful run at the title - which ain't happening - he will make more money outside the UFC. ", 
        "Why wouldn't he have a successful run at the title? He's 16-0 and looks to be a good fighter. What are his weaknesses or reasons you think he won't make it far in the UFC?", 
        "Well I have to be honest, I have not watched much footage on him so my opinion is not educated. I'm mostly going with the odds.\n\nHe also has a reputation as a \"take two to give one\" fighter, which doesn't bode well at the very highest level.\n\nFinally, he is a trained wrestler but his fights have been contested primarily on the feet. Again, not an expert on him but that seems to suggest that he hasn't fought the level of striker he will face in the UFC.\n\nEither that or shiiiit if he got into the UFC he would clean house.\n\nI'll take an in-depth look at him and get more educated and come back to this. ", 
        "Nope, I think it was Nick that said straight up Nate made 20/20 in that fight because of that risky upfront money deal he took that ended up biting him in the ass. ", 
        "I figured someone would respond this way. I was going to preempt it with an explanation. I suppose I should have.\n\nFirst I will say that the UFC and the fighters have done a good job in hiding the exact financial terms of fighter contracts. So this is all speculatory. But there are some assumptions that should be made based on years of observing the organization. \n\nStandard UFC contracts do not include large signing bonuses. To my knowledge there is no signing bonus at all. They are primarily limited to show money + win money and at the higher levels, sometimes just show money.\n\nAs such, when evaluating how much a fighter whose contract *does* include a signing bonus is going to be paid per fight, we should include some percentage of the bonus in our calculation. What percent we use depends on the length of the contract.\n\nIf Nate signed a five fight contract, we would add 20% of the signing bonus to each fight.\n\nLet's say he got a $500,000 signing bonus and 20/20 on the night.\n\nThat means the total value of the contract is: $600,000 to show five times, with an additional $100,000 available should he win all five.\n\nBroken down to a per-fight basis, he is making $120,000 to show and $20,000 to win.\n\nNow, if this type of signing bonus is given to every fighter, of course we should not include it in the calculation of their wage. To the best of my knowledge it is not and Nate is in a unique situation.\n\nThat is why it is not accurate to use his 20/20 as an example of what fighters of his stature are making in the UFC.", 
        "That makes more sense. He probably made a little over 100,000 per fight if you count the signing bonus to each fight. Im sure he didnt get paid that way though, he probably got the 500k upfront, and then 20/20 bonus for each fight. He was still hugely underpaid, but at least he wasnt making peanuts. ", 
        "He'll be making 80 to show and 80 to win at the end of his current contract, not including sponsors. ", 
        "Thanks explaining the show/win. I never knew what the two numbers were. Couldn't figure it out for some damn reason.", 
        "No problem, this is also commonly represented as \"he got paid 80/80\" or \"60/40\", with the first being what you're paid to show up to the fight, and the second being your win bonus. ", 
        "There would probably be no point in making the switch from an economical standpoint then. He could be in the UFC top 3 and not make that.", 
        "Damn that's sick money for WSOF. Not many UFC fighters get 80/80.", 
        "He pretty much is WSOF at this point, with Moraes as a strong #2.", 
        "WSOF pays their stars really well Moraes gets 70/70; probably why they fill most of their cards with unknowns under their headliners.", 
        "Tate got 46/46 to win the BW title.. don't see him earn more than that in his first UFC fights.", 
        "Yeah but tate got a free belt due to star alignment.", 
        "What do you mean 46/46? 46g if she wins or loses?", 
        "She gets 46k to step into the octagon, no matter what. And another 46k if she actually wins.", 
        "46 to show up on fight night, 46 more if she wins. ", 
        "Luckily she has the belt now.  So she will be renegotiating, if she hasn't already. ", 
        "Yeah Holly went from basically the same to 500k disclosed for her loss so Miesha's definitely getting a serious bump up if her manager is even borderline competent", 
        "Would switching stances be advisable in this scenario?\n\nAlso, I feel Foster's pain, tore my ACL last July, it's a cunt of a job.", 
        "Learning how to block a low kick is advisable. Something also no North-Americans fighters seem to be able to.", 
        "If they've already hurt you that bad, mostly it's just too little too late. Also it is probably worse to have your hurt leg in the back.", 
        "Switching stances will protect the injured knee but he opted to stay in his dominant stance and swing for the fences with his power hand to try for a fast finish before it gave out. The best decision depends on the fighter and how bad the knee was injured, but honestly, you're pretty much screwed no matter what you do. You can't move well so your striking defense is garbage, you can't use that leg to kick or to help load up punches and taking someone down with a bad knee runs the risk of popping it out.", 
        "How was your recovery process? How badly did you tear the ligament and how long were you out?", 
        "Tough, lot of physiotherapy, stretching etc. \n\nI completely tore it off the bone, got a donor replacement.\n\nI've been back to running since the start of February only, not sure if i'll play Gaelic Football competitively again.", 
        "If you can do it. Most people can't.", 
        "Yeah but it doesn't help much since you'll get kciked in the other leg too then.", 
        "In open stance he would have to use inside leg kicks. He would be much less likely to drop from those.", 
        "How does it compare to the acl tear?", 
        "Just looks like a knee injury, and ACL is the daddy of all knee injuries.", 
        "One problem with switching stances is that if he keeps landing those kicks, then you have 2 hurt legs instead of 1. It'd probably be better to check the kicks as much as possible ", 
        "my first thought,  i don't know shit but if he keeps kicking my leg and it clearly hurts like a bitch ill switch to the other leg", 
        "Know what's worse than having 1 leg you can't walk on?", 
        "Switching stances in incredibly hard, because 90% of people spend 90% of their training in one stance. Imagine Tom Brady switching to using his left hand because his right shoulder hurt. ", 
        "That sounds completely off. The majority of the good fighters at my gyms (from amateur to pro) swap stances frequently when sparring.\n\nYes, it happens incomparably less often in actual fighting but I doubt it is due to lack of practice. They're just two very different environments where fighters perform differently.", 
        "Do you mean, going between right and left during rounds of sparring, because that's common? It gives you different looks, gives your opponent something different to look at, but there is a MASSIVE difference between that, and going southpaw, and saying southpaw.  ", 
        "What I meant is that swapping stances is very common in practice for the more experienced, or usually pro, fighters. Obviously there'll be dominant stances, but maybe 60-40 in terms of practice time in my experience.\n\nSo I was just saying that it sounded off as a reason to me. It doesn't surprise me that, even with 50-50 sparring, a fighter would routinely default to the dominant stance during a fight because you're in actual survival mode.\n\nHowever I get what you mean, that swapping around is not the same as going to your non-dominant and staying there for the rest of a fight. That might be a lot harder than I realize, but also wasn't clear from your comment above.", 
        "Well an NFL team can send on a replacement in that case, I'm not saying Foster would have done any better, probably just delay the inevitable. ", 
        "i agree, about delaying the inevitable, he prolly thought the same thing, but knew that keeping his stance gave him a chance to get the 1 shot KO. ", 
        "It depends on a lot of factors. \n\nMaybe the fighter is very uncomfortable and almost ineffective from the opposite stance. In which case either mentally or physically he has nothing to offer and cannot pull out a last-ditch effort like Foster tried to do. Also, if his injured leg is his rear-leg, it might be too painful for him to plant it and create torque in order to create any significant power.  \n\nIn my estimation it just boils down to not having put enough hours into being ambidextrous in his striking/defense. If it was that easy, he would have done it prior to getting his leg mauled in the first place. There's a reason why it's so rare to see truly comfortable fighters that can switch stances a la (GSP, TJ, Demetrious, Cruz) and why they're usually top-tier fighters. It's a difficult thing to master, and the consequences of attempting it are entirely more dire as opposed to say, an NBA player who can't dribble/drive/shoot with his opposite hand.", 
        "Idk man, I think if most NBA players tried to change their shooting hand the results would be pretty dire", 
        "Plenty of guys can lay up with their off hand, but there's no point in learning how to shoot a jump shot with their off hand so why learn.", 
        "There are always advantages to learning to do things well with both hands. <Insert fap joke>. As for NBA players, good defensive players learn to jump to the shooting hand side for a block, to avoid making contact and called for a foul. But the advantage is little and it is so hard to master to shoot with opposite hand, unless you're [Kobe Bryant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MuvPhGs6-4). In terms of equal difficulties in learning, switching stance is like an opposite hand layup. Learning to be a blackbelt BJJ is more like shooting with the opposite hand.", 
        "Not necessarily. In terms of in-game consequences, a lefty lay-up, floater, or hook shot wouldn't be a bad thing to try and fail at. Of course an actual jump shot or 3 pointer would be ridiculous w/o prior practice. I should have been more clear.  \n\nAnd even so, if you shoot an entire game with your left hand, the worst is that you get ridiculed, criticized, maybe benched a game for being an ass. If you fight out of stance when you are not prepared for it, the worst that can happen is waking up facing the rafters. That's what I mean by the consequences being more dire.", 
        "Switching stances is the default manuever, but it's super obvious so a lot of guys don't do it.\n\nBut to be fair, the only worse option would be to NOT switch stances, and basically point to your leg and scream \"one or two more of those and I'm done!\" like Foster did.\n\nCan't knock him too hard though, after a certain point pain is an involuntary response. ", 
        "Yeah as soon as someone grabs themselves after a shot like that to the leg you don't stop throwing kicks at it because you know each one hurts worse than the last. He definitely messes up by telegraphing his pain like that. You can see him try and cover up like he was just faking. Similar to \"that one fight\" (can't remember the fighters for the life of me) when he faked a leg injury and countered an attack beautifully. Foster just didn't follow through as well.", 
        "This is why I would never want to take an amateur MMA match. I could see someone picking apart an injury just like that", 
        "You mean [Lawler vs Manhoef](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U9oFovBdmZA) ?", 
        "Are you sure you're not thinking of the Pete Sell vs Scott Smith body shot sequence?", 
        "You're right that's exactly what I was thinking of!!", 
        "He wasn't faking that, btw", 
        "while most guys can effectively throw a few basic strikes from the other stance, they will be limited to basic, slow, predictable movements and their defense will be really shitty. it's super rare to see someone be as defensibly responsible from both stances, the few exceptions usually are guys who learned to fight as right handed southpaws. it takes a lot of time time get your nervous system used to using non dominant arms and legs to learn fine motor control in new positions, it's like learning to write or throw with your other hand. guys like TJ are really special.", 
        "When Tumenov faced Larkin recently I thought he took even more leg abuse, but Tumenov would periodically switch stances to rest that leg a bit, and even though it was red as a beet he never tried to show that it was hurt, even though it was clear he was taking serious abuse.", 
        "Did anybody see The kickboxer Anderson Silva absolutely brutalise that tall black guy with leg kicks in Glory recently ? That was hard to watch. ", 
        "That's because he's from the Caucasus, they are crazy.", 
        "Different kind of white people Mike", 
        "White outside, black inside.", 
        "They're the black people of the white people", 
        "Speaking of black Joe, it's the color your heart will after watching hardcore Henry.", 
        "Hah he stopped to grab his leg, I think the cat was out of the bag.", 
        "I actually though he was \"baitting\"", 
        "You can tell that he can hardly put any weight on it either. I know that quick hop and shift the other leg from my own knee problems.", 
        "Yep. I saw that and knew what the story was", 
        "should've grabbed the other leg to trick him. ", 
        "Forget legs, should've pretended to be rocked to really confuse him. ", 
        "Or the old \"time out I'm rocked\" Michael chandler move. ", 
        "Just start defending a rear naked choke in response.", 
        "<gets kicked in left leg>\n\n<grimaces and grabs right leg in pain>\n\nMy god I would love to see that ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/3s8FM.gif", 
        "Have to post that this also made me crack up. Nice one.", 
        "Actually lol'd", 
        "Fucking perfect", 
        "Going back to watch Edson Barboza v Rafaello Oliveira now after that. A good leg kick TKO is hard to come by.", 
        "Aldo Faber was brutal to watch", 
        "the aftermath photos are crazy", 
        "Brandon Vera had one in the UFC", 
        "I know you said 'good' leg kick tko, but Bas Rutten finished Ruben Warpath in his return fight with one as well. Shitty fight but a leg kick tko nonetheless.", 
        "[i liked that fight, Bas put on a clinic against a much bigger man.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1ePXA5lbqk) if memory serves Bas couldn't really train for the fight as his old injuries flared up real bad and he just got in shape doing cardio since anything strenous made it flare up real bad. he talked about it on the JRE. ", 
        "Lima/Hawn is another good one.\n\nAlso, Nunes set up her victory vs. Baszler with a vicious leg kick.", 
        "I heard silva had a good one \n\n:( ", 
        "that finish got me hooked on MMA", 
        "gaethje has two of them\n\nno I'm sorry 3 now", 
        "He almost got Melvin out of there with them, too. Two or three more would have done it.", 
        "Oh shit, gonna have to go back on Gaethje. Only stumbled across wsof by happenstance. He's a pretty exciting fighter. ", 
        "i think he's tied for the most exciting action fighter in MMA with matt brown. a perfect example of what makes JG great to watch is in this gif right after he hurts him he walks forward and blocks 3-4 shots to deliver one. most guys will block one shot and step back and reset, JG gives no fucks and never learned how to step backwards because why would you?", 
        "[You have no idea](https://m.youtube.com/watch?feature=youtu.be&v=s05bpegD184)", 
        "You're doing the Lord's work, sir", 
        "Gaethje takes some serious abuse, the guy doesn't seem to look to avoid getting hit much.", 
        "Palomino too. Both guys got hit with some bombs! Crazy fight. ", 
        "Wow. That's one of the most exciting fights I've seen recently. Thanks.", 
        "What a fight. ", 
        "Good googily moogily what a war", 
        "That front flip kick at the end of the first, holy shit. What an absolutely amazing fight. I do think any strategically smart top 10 is going to beat him though. His cover and duck forward strategy of striking defense is not going to be very effective.", 
        "\"He is the taller and the more-reach  fighter\"\n\nNot sure who this guy is but the ufc should hit him up after goldie retires", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No it's not, i know who bas rutten is, and i was talking about the other guy without the Dutch accent. Thanks anyways i guess", 
        "But DAE Bas?", 
        "English is his second language", 
        "Not talking about bas...", 
        "Bas?", 
        "No, its not bas, its the other guy. No dutch accent.", 
        "If you thought this was brutal, go watch [Rick Roufus vs Kietsongrit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUpfBYHrCWM)... Mother of God he was probably in a wheel chair for a month. ", 
        "It's very clear who the winner was, the ICE!", 
        "jesus my fucking legs hurt after watching that..... \n\nthanks for sharing i had never seen that before\n", 
        "I love how the Thai fighter had no intention to win on points. ", 
        "Thanks for sharing. Did Roufus have a career after this? It does look like he might have suffered real damage to his joint. Nevermind, I just Googled him. Long and storied career in kickboxing.", 
        "Those fancy kickboxing pants must have hidden a lot of bruising.\n\nI'm always fascinated by the argument that some techniques shouldn't be allowed because they require less \"talent\".", 
        "What techniques are those? Or are you referring to kickboxing in the era when elbows and knees weren't allowed?", 
        "He is probably referring to the other Roufus brother, who after the fight said he still felt like Roufus should have won, because \"just kicking the legs doesn't require any talent, the spinning shit Roufus did does, however\"", 
        "God, he had no idea what was coming either. I also love how Duke Roufus was in shock afterward, he really didn't understand what happened yet. ", 
        "Roufus corner was absolutely stupid. Should've stopped the fight. This isn't Rocky.", 
        "Yeah. That fight was like Rocky with kicking. \n\nAlso Rick's brother saying that they should have got the win in the end... lol.", 
        "The brother later became a legendary stand up trainer after learning leg kicks lol", 
        "the announcing was so awesome in this fight, they were hard selling roufas the whole time even though he was getting destroyed.", 
        "As someone from r/all I found the bias annoying. ", 
        "well, in context this was a long time ago, not a lot of people were super familiar with thai style back then and this was a kind of mixed rules kickboxing event. you would never see this today.", 
        "I found it so satesfying when Roufus started getting his ass handed to him due to the bias. It was like the smugness was kicked out of them.", 
        "My favorite was saying that \"he's never fought someone who can hit this hard!\" as Roufus was falling.", 
        "oh man that's such a classic fight between American style early kickboxing and Muay Thai. If I remember correctly, Kietsongrit came away with a broken jaw early in the fight and still finished Rick with those brutal leg kicks.", 
        "Fuck Cecil Peoples! Leg kicks always been my favourite technique.\n\n", 
        "There should be a contest where Aldo and Barboza see how fast they can get Peoples' leg to turn purple.", 
        "I'ld add Pedro Rizzo , Cro Cop and Kenji Yamaki.", 
        "Pat Barry as a celebrity appearance. ", 
        "Or just put him in a Kyokushin Knockdown tournament like this one. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=41V4I1kJbPA", 
        "> Cro Cop\n\nHe said purple, not amputated.", 
        "Right leg hospital, left leg cemetery indeed", 
        "I wonder where that center leg sends you...", 
        "Right leg leg hospital, left leg leg cemetery.", 
        "Marco Ruas set it off, put the world on notice how to chop down the big man. Classic shit from the old school, when it happen there wasn't ever a legkick Ko in the UFC", 
        "Then he got subbed by a guy 29 kg lighter than him in a tournament <3 Sakuraba. ", 
        "poor varelans, he always ended up on the wrong side of highlight reels. he did a great long form sitdown interview w/ jack encarnacio of sherdog recently if you're into hearing about the old wild west days. \n\nhttp://www.sherdog.com/radio/Sitdown-The-Polar-Bear-Paul-Varelans-4397\n\njack is my favorite interviewer in MMA. he is the guy who did the amazing look back series a few years back where he goes through the first 20 years of the UFC with great people heavily involved in that particular era of the UFC. my favorite example of this is him reviewing the coleman vs Rizzo fight with Meltzer who was judging the fight. meltzer had no instructions on how to judge, he was told to simply write a name on a piece of paper and held it up to the camera.\n\n[first episode on UFC 1-5 w/ clyde gentry, the man who wrote the authoritative book on the early UFC w/ tons of insider info](http://www.sherdog.com/radio/Rewind-Look-Back-Clyde-Gentry-UFC-15-3477)\n\n[Meltzer's episode on 11-20, my favorite](http://www.sherdog.com/radio/Rewind-Look-Back-Dave-Meltzer-UFC-1120-3487) other guests in the series include Luke thomas, ben fowlkes, ariel, chiapetta, and other great insiders. \n\nindex of most of the episodes - http://www.sherdog.com/radio/Rewind-Look-Back-Todd-Martin-UFCs-8190-3499", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Link please?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Are you talking about his right leg?  I don't see how a bruise like that can form in a fight that lasted less than 2 minutes. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "oh ok,please just type left/right next time,written like that reminds of Paul Varelans leg 'bruise'", 
        "Brutal!", 
        "Nothing I love more than a tko by leg kicks! ", 
        "Much less a walkoff tko. Very impressive!!", 
        "And did it happen with 3 to go in the first round? Those are some powerful leg kicks ", 
        "That guy and anyone who watches this fight is definitely going to reconsider thinking that you can just absorb leg strikes like that.", 
        "What a bad fighter. All he had to do was not get kicked and he wouldn't have had any problems, but no, he got kicked. ", 
        "Lel", 
        "Gaethje gonna Gaeth", 
        "How exactly do you pronounce his last name? Is it like cage but with a ch sound? Or is it like gaucho?", 
        "I think it's Americanized Dutch, originally it would have been like a y sound and the tch sound had a baby, which I can't make. This is an educated guess, I had a Dutch room mate with a similar name.", 
        "Gay chi\n\nLike homosexual life energy", 
        "He's not wrong...", 
        "Dammit Jimmy!", 
        "2 WSOF Main Events in a row ended by leg kicks.", 
        "backflips off the cage that fail (even a little bit) always make me cringe", 
        "I liked GSP's flips that he landed like once.", 
        "Stuck with one leg and didn't back down. Dude has heart. ", 
        "He's basically the Anthony Johnson of the LW division. Stupid, untrained athletic power and inhuman resilience. He's incredibly dangerous, not just to his opponents, but to himself as well and he has no fucks to give. \n\nAnd he's blind as a bat without his glasses, lol. Amazing fighter.\n\nhttp://www.bloodyelbow.com/2016/3/9/11186162/wsof-lightweight-champion-justin-gaethje-mma-news-undefeated-Brian-Foster-title?_ga=1.37895463.507379909.1420389058", 
        "Did you see when he fought nick newell gaethje destroyed him and fought like he didnt care if he was handicapped. Made me a fan", 
        "i don't see the similarities to AJ", 
        "Stupid crazy power and very tough wrestling is the similarity between the two.", 
        "stupid crazy power? slugging with palamino isn't evidence of ko power. dude slugs hard but doesn't have instant ko power.", 
        "You're kidding yourself if you don't think that Gaethje hits hard. He is definitely one of the strongest punchers in the lightweight division. \n\nUnlike Anthony Johnson, however, Justin doesn't seem to have a bully mentality. He fights through adversity very well.", 
        "i think he hits hard but i don't think he carries the same power as gullard or even jeremy stephens. and yes he does fight through diversity and has fallen in love with leg kicks recently. throwing leg kicks from the clinch isn't something i've seen in mma. pretty interesting. dude can brawl but can anyone ever really brawl with AJ and not be KO'd?\n", 
        "Jeremy Stephens has a 44% knockout rate. Gaethje's is 81%. \n\nNobody has brawled with Gaethje and survived. Guillard likely would've been stopped as well had the fight been a five-rounder. Those leg kicks were adding up. The thing is, people who brawl with AJ are probably MORE likely to survive than ones who give him respect. He's crazy aggressive, but he loses composure when the other guy refuses to back down. If I were to pick one heavyweight that AJ should be able to knock out, it'd be Andrei Arlovski, and yet he made it three full rounds (plus an extra minute).\n\nJust saying, Gaethje's combination of power and volume is a pretty venomous one. I don't see many lightweights on earth beating him in his kind of fight. ", 
        "yea but like with palomino, justin can have a back and forth slug fest. you don't do that with AJ. andrei might have went three rounds but he did get his face broken. I would say AJ is the most powerful striker at 205 and capable of stunning anyone with one shot. i don't see justin having that type of power. ", 
        "I see what you mean. I guess what I was trying to communicate was the fact that Gaethje, by his own admission, has no idea where the power comes from. He didn't train for it, he didn't refine his technique to develop it that power, he just learned to kick and it was there. In the art world, we call this \"naive\" ability. He's a naive power striker. \n\nI remember an interview where AJ was talking about being on his grandfather's farm as a kid, and his gramps would throw him a board with nails hammered through it and he'd say, \"Yank those out.\" AJ would tear the nails out with his bare hands. As a boy. There's no doubt he's learned and refined his striking technique since then, but he's that rare alchemy of fast-twitch muscle fiber, size and God knows what other factors that produced a fighter who's been knocking out fools from welter- to heavyweight- with ease from day one. That KO power been somewhat sharpened and refined with skill and experience, but it's been there from the beginning. \n", 
        "both incredibly blacksplosive.", 
        "He also loves dabs.", 
        "Source?", 
        "Unnamed credible, so take it for what it's worth. Heard epic sizes though, during road trips even.", 
        "He needs to get the bendo eye surgery stat. Henderson blew up after that ", 
        "I too can't see without glasses when I fight. Did Bendo do LASIK?? Or is LASIK not allowed for fighting?", 
        "He probably got PRK. Older surgery that takes longer to heal from than LASIK. In either surgery the cornea gets reshaped to correct the refractive error but they have to get past the superficial layer of the cornea first. PRK they dissolve the top layer but it will grow back (hence the longer recovery time) LASIK they make a flap and peel the top layer back then replace the tissue and it scars down. That scar is what can slip or reopen from trauma which is why the military historically told people to get PRK instead of LASIK (I imagine fighters would have same concern but there are other contraindications for LASIK). Recently surgeons don't make that flap with a blade anymore but they use a femtosecond laser which makes insanely precise cuts so when they replace the tissue the scar is smaller/hopefully more secure. I'm unsure if commissions/military would clear the new version though.", 
        "I'm seeing both mentioned but PRK seems to be more likely. Lasik could definitely be bad for fighters ", 
        "I've always wondered how the fuck they do it. I boxed for fun a little bit when I was younger, but I'm blind as hell without my glasses. Kinda weird getting knocked the fuck out by a fuzzy streak to the jaw.", 
        "I had no idea Bendo had done that. I wonder if Gaethje'd be less effective he could actually see the monsters he's stepping into the ring with. \"HOLY SHIT, you want me to fight THAT?! FUCK NO, OUT.\"", 
        "Knowing him it would just get him more jacked up. He's a madman.", 
        "Did he kick so hard he tore ligaments in his knee? I don't wish to find out personally, just curious what the exact injury was that brought him down.", 
        "probably an acl tear", 
        "Probably just muscle damage. A good round kick makes you feel fucking miserable, they keep landing and you can't walk. Imagine the most sore you ever felt in your life how it sucked to walk or move. Now imagine it was that and your entire leg was cramping the worst it ever cramped.  Your knee can be fine but you won't walk for days afterwards.", 
        "What makes you think this? It could very much be ligament damage or you could be right it could be muscle damage. He's getting hit right on the knee and the way it moves in puts a lot of strain on the MCL. There's no real way to tell by watching the video. I'm am not a doctor btw and this is not medical advice.", 
        "Really fucking brutal technique. By continuing to kick the knee after it was obviously hurt is basically saying 'I need to win this fight, so I'm going to take you out of action for 6 months minimum.'\n\n", 
        "Chael was saying it was his calf, not his knee. ", 
        "Why did Chael say that? It does seem to be his calf being kicked a few times. It could be that the force is turning Brian's leg inwards and make it look like that. The very last kick that finished him was right on the knee and when he goes down he's holding the sides of his knee, I don't think he would go down like that if it was his calf (Disclaimer: not a medical professional)", 
        "I don't know either. I'm seeing the same thing you're seeing. Chael could of had a better view from cage side, or he could be speaking from experience. ", 
        "I didn't watch the fight but yeah it's brutal, on the other hand, it might have been an idea to check the kick occasionally", 
        "He Barboza'd him!", 
        "Watching that made my leg hurt.", 
        "\"We should really practice checking leg kicks today.\" \"Nah, I'll be fine.\"", 
        "Oh my god, savage. \n\nSurprised he didn't throw in the towel after his knee first got hurt. Knee injuries are no laughing matter. They end sports careers all the time. ", 
        "\"Leg kicks don't finish fights\"\n\n-Cecil Peoples / Kenny Florian", 
        "ACLs are overrated anyways ", 
        "For a one-legged man in an asskicking contest, he still put up a hell of a fight.", 
        "Joe Rogan would be creaming his pants on this finish.", 
        "Foster's a fucking warrior for fighting back on a blown out knee.", 
        "Agreed, Brian definitely went out on his shield. ", 
        "Shit when I blew out my ACL wrestling all I did was sit on the floor and scream like a bitch.", 
        "Man, I am worried about this guy never growing to his potential stuck at WSOF. He deserves to be fighting with the best.", 
        "He makes more money in Wsof UFC doesn't pay anywhere near what he gets now for non champions.  Entry level UFC fighter make like 6000/6000 whereas the champ in Wsof makes at least 80000 no reason to take a pay cut", 
        "Entry level right now is 10k/10k.\n\nGaethje being an incredibly exciting fighter and well known champ of WSOF will certainly net him a very good UFC contract.  He's not some unknown fighter trying to make his name in the sport.  Gaethje's already left a good mark and has beaten some quality opponents.\n\nThey brought Josh Burkman back at a 45/45 contract and he wasn't even the champ in WSOF anymore.  You really think they'll give Gaethje a 6/6 contract?", 
        "Don't forget the 5k Reebok kicker.", 
        "I doubt Gaethje would make entry level pay. Lombard and Alvarez didn't. What the UFC is doing to MMA definitely sucks, tho. ", 
        "The UFC is making mma mainstream, offer fighter health insurance, pay by far the highest wage, but yeah they are terrible for mma.", 
        "They standardized restrictive contracts and the abuse of likeness rights, committed outright robbery of hundreds of thousands of dollars in sponsorship pay, and are abusing their status as the premier fighting league in order to unfairly press monopolistic control over the entire sport. \n\nThe good does not wash out the bad.", 
        "They aren't perfect by any means, they aren't even doing the best possible for MMA but in no way are they terrible for the sport. They are doing what they can to achieve a monopoly yes, I imagine to elevate to NFL or NHL status eventually. They are definitely making a lot of selfish decisions but don't forget these guys lost millions for the first handful of years and are apparently in over 500m of debt even as of last year IIRC.\n\nI completely understand the anger towards some of their decision but saying they are terrible for the sport is just stupid, they've done a lot of good for fighters who would otherwise be struggling to make a decent wage. Hell, even Mighty Mouse had two jobs when he originally won the title.\n\nA long way to go and I hope it pays off for the fighters in the long run.", 
        "I used to live in Cambodia and some guys as training would go into the jungle and kick a palm tree sapling until they cut it down.\n\nOf course they were limping like hell after that.\n\nBut after a few rubdowns of Tigerbalm and a couple days of rest, when they got into the ring, they were chopping the crap out of their opponent's leg until he couldn't stand.", 
        "Yeah its to do with making tiny breaks in the bone so it calcifies and hardens. That old school thai guys have you kicking eachothers shins all day long. Its why Buakaw seems to have a titanium bar as a shinbone. ", 
        "Pat Barry's first three fights: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Egcl2m6WkoM\n\nDamn.. I wish he had dropped down to 205, he looked like a beast back in the day.", 
        "He was at the event with Rose. Cool seeing him. \n", 
        "Gaethje and a lot of the fighters on the card train at grudge. rose and pat both train there or have in the past.", 
        "First time I see a leg TKO, impressive", 
        "I think Edson Barboza has done it twice in the UFC.", 
        "Yes I'm sure you're right. But I mean first time I see it live", 
        "Wow, a walkoff tko from a legkick. That's scary.", 
        "Right. That's me off watching Thiago Alves for a few hours.", 
        "I have never seen a lowkick KO in less than 2 minutes.", 
        "Not sure if Foster was unaware how to check a leg kick or if the first kick hurt him so badly he forgot.", 
        "Will his leg be okay?", 
        "Aldo probably would have killed this chump ", 
        "I can see Bellator writing a fat check for this kid. He's pretty much everything you're looking for in a fighter.", 
        "I'm surprised he didn't swap stances. Shit looked painful.", 
        "\"Leg kicks don't stop fights\" - 3 years ago from my SSgt at the time", 
        "Foster got chopped!", 
        "that is brutal", 
        "Like watching a cat toy with a mouse after that first kick.", 
        "I almost thought the dude in red was gonna win by KO while the other guy kept trying to leg kick.  He's a warrior for fighting through it though", 
        "Foster fought well with one leg for a bit", 
        "I never understand why the leg kicks are so under utilized. Even if you don't tko them with the kicks, it still ruins their balance and positioning", 
        "Someone had better send this to Cecil Peoples.", 
        "That man needs to learn how to check a kick.", 
        "If I were him I'd renegotiate my contract with wsof, stick with them as he's already paved a road to the top and is in a position to make more money. ", 
        "10/10 most fucked up thing I've seen today", 
        "Which is which?\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Can't really see it on the GIF though. \n\nAlso the red bar on the bottom right is really confusing", 
        "The color their name is in is the color of their gloves. ", 
        "But not of their trunks", 
        "Gaethje is the one kicking. ", 
        "change stance change stance nop", 
        "Cant stand this stuff. Not sure why anyone wants to watch an inevitable ligament tear. Seeing him go through the thought process of \"ok just a couple more kicks to his damaged leg and I win\" makes me want to turn it off. ", 
        "This is the only comment like that in this thread - and you even got downvoted lol. I'm with you. I like MMA and shit, but this was just painful to watch. Doing MA, having an injured knee myself which left my kinda devastated - I can only imagine that people who downvoted you have never been off the coach themselves. For them it's just a game. They want blood and violence and are not concerned about fighters health. I can only hope that it was muscle pain that made him give up, not some serious ligament damage.", 
        "Corner should have thrown in the towel when it became obvious he was hurt. The second he showed his knee was seriously hurt, it was over for him. He was never going to win. \n\nKnee kicks almost seem like they should be banned. Puts fighters out of action for 6-12 months minimum. Can end careers. ", 
        "Ya and you cant tap. Submission damage with no chance to tap.", 
        "Yeah, I had forgot what a meat grinder MMA is. A lot of ended careers that no-one will ever know about. This video reminded me that.", 
        "Why? \n\nThe other guy was clearly hurt yet chose to continue. After that point it only makes sense to keep attacking the weak point. ", 
        "Honestly I can relate to both sides.  On the one hand, it's a combat sport- take advantage of whatever weakness is presented (which relates to all sports).  On the other hand, you never want to injure a guy- not only is it just generally shitty for both parties involved, that's his livelihood.", 
        "Did he tear any knee ligaments? I was watching the fight and Chael Sonnen was commentating. He said it looked like his knee, but the kicks were so low that his calf was taking the damage. ", 
        "If your leg is vulnerable stop leading with it and change your stance.  Don't let your opponent continuously beat the same leg.", 
        "Worst thing he could have done was pay attention to his leg also how the do you pronounce Gaethje?\n\nEDIT: Thank you but how does that even make sense ", 
        "Gay-Chi ", 
        ">how the do you pronounce Gaethje?\n\nGay-she\n\n", 
        "Gay-Che or along those lines I think.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">how does that even make sense\n\nA lot of European immigrants from the past chose to make their names easier to say/Anglicize them, like Mark Cuban's grandparents came to the US from Russia and changed their name from \"Chabenisky\" to \"Cuban\". \n\nHowever others just chose to keep their original surnames, that's probably Justin's case. It's an uncommon surname for sure, but googling it has drawn up some results on Germany. So Gaethje's family was probably from there", 
        "My guess is that he's most likely from South African decent. ", 
        "His mother is 100% mexican.  Regardless of what's on his dad's side, he's probably more mexican than anything else.  Not sure of the origins of his name though.", 
        "Don't that guy doing well in the UFC, but honestly this is the first time I've seen any footage of him. Both fighters seemed to be over committing to their strikes. Plus, the other dude wasn't even trying to check the kicks or change stance (or take the fight to the clinch). \n\n\"I am not impressed by your perrforrmance\" - Kenny Florian", 
        "Yeah it's easy to look good when you're fighting an untrained guy winging his punches and leading with his face. ", 
        "Who are you referring to? ", 
        "Brian Foster. ", 
        "He's a 10 year vet with 34 fights and a good record, your criticism is unfounded. ", 
        "I completely agree. Never liked Edmond he seemed like a Shady person & turned out he was. Ronda's mom about him on MMA ROASTED said it all about him", 
        "It seemed like she was heading towards training with them but you can bet that Edmond wasn't having someone else get near her with good boxing skills.", 
        "I think this is a great idea mostly because those guys definitely wouldn't be yes-men. They still seem grounded and could maybe help her come back to reality.", 
        "Read that Werdum invited her to train at Kings", 
        "Great, now in addition to being in movies, she'll have a second excuse for not fighting: injuries.", 
        "*you're doing great Champ*\n\nDoesn't matter where Ronda goes, she just has to leave Edmond", 
        "As much as I love the Diaz Bros, they have never had great cage cutting. One of the biggest things Ronda has to do is improve her footwork and cage cutting. We saw with Holly that, though Ronda throws powerful punches, her offensive footwork isn't great. Considering the newness of her striking game that's not shocking, but if Ronda wants to continue her clinch dominated gameplan she'll need a way to walk the ever improving field at 135 into the fence so she can tie up.\n\nNot that she shouldn't also work with the Diaz Bros (who she has trained with in the past) because they do have crafty striking, great submission skills, and a good gameplan for 5 round fights. But, working with a more footwork based boxing coach and/or a coach who can integrate her striking and grappling better would also be wise, in my armchair MMA coach opinion. I'd love to see her with some good dutch-style kickboxers and Muay Thai guys to really elivate her clinch striking.", 
        "Thanks OP I enjoyed this. It reminded me how dope Ronda used to be. ", 
        "I doubt the scrap pack would tolerate Travis Browne's wife beating ways", 
        "You are a pedophile!!!  Oh wait, I shouldn't accuse people of disgusting crimes with no evidence?  Darn. ", 
        "I don't think it's cool to casually represent someone as guilty of domestic abuse when there's been no prosecution or even charges brought on them. You're encouraging people like yourself into an ignorant circle jerk for Karma. You know you're spreading unknown things as facts and yet don't seem to care because hey its more convenient to act like it's for sure true.", 
        "Can't let my burning torch goto waste", 
        "But just what would I do with my pitchfork then?!", 
        "Yeah, its sad but thats the internet for you", 
        "Wow bro what a real crazy zany idea that is. ", 
        "If that's the case. I'm picking Tate", 
        "She should go to Kings MMA,  learn legit combos and learn how to throw a damn kick ffs.", 
        "Gracie Fighter Jiu Jitsu is a good gym and all but if you want her to be the best then she needs to go to Alliance MMA.", 
        "Lotsa downvotes for making a perfectly good point. :/ vOv", 
        "nick and nate fight southpaw. and holly holm is a southpaw.", 
        "Do you want her to train with southpaws or train with the best?", 
        "the diaz brothers don't just train all day against orthodox fighters, they train against eachother. name two people you can think of that are better at fighting southpaws than they are; not to mention just being amazing strikers in general.", 
        "Not everyone is a southpaw fighter silly, she should train at the best gym, if you want her to be the very best.", 
        "dom is great at footwork, positioning, and controlling range. not high volume accurate punches. does not fight from a natural southpaw stance. he also isn't accurate and almost never finishes fights. he's the guy you want if you need to close the distance on a fighter like jones with insane reach. Not the one you want if you fight orthodox against a southpaw kickboxing champ that is gonna knock you the fuck out.", 
        "Remember, we're talking about bantamweight here! Dom is easily the most dominant bantamweight there's ever been. Ronda needs more than just specific opponent training, if she's going to be the best womens BTW then it makes sense to learn from the very best.", 
        "nick is a welterweight that went 5 rounds with anderson silva and did better than pretty much everyone save The Chris.", 
        "Yeah! I thought everyone overlooked that fact, it also sort of explains why silva broke down crying at the end of the fight: he thought he was going to lose going into the fight. But the thing is, their expertise lies outside the bantamweight division, whereas dominick cruz has more experience than anyone fighting against high level bantamweights.", 
        "and his skillset is around point fighting against smaller orthodox fighters. not southpaw kickboxing champs. at best he can teach ronda how to be a better defensive fighter. but he could never help her stand and trade in the pocket the way nick could.", 
        "There's not just one solution for a problem. What is the best for one fighter isn't for another. That's why there are so many pro level gyms doing it very differently in each gym.", 
        "Of course, but only one gym has the most dominant men's bantamweight champion of all time, and that's Alliance MMA.", 
        "[Man you say \"Alliance MMA\" alot.](https://youtu.be/qo5jnBJvGUs?t=28s)   I'm starting to think you work there.\n\n", 
        "I'm a cruz ultra-fan... ._.;", 
        "Ah! Makes perfect sense. His recovery says a lot for that gym.", 
        "Wasn't this the reason the UFC started using its own cutmen? I think most people agree that GSP was greasing for that fight.", 
        "That was the reason", 
        "I remember posting on the UG forum around the time grease gate was going down. GSP fans were ridiculous. There is no dispute that Phil Nurse rubbed Vaseline on his back.", 
        "Never knew about this. Sketchy af", 
        "The worst part was how much damage BJ took in that fight. I lost all respect for GSP.\n\n\"Breathing technique\" is up there with Anderson Silva's dick pill excuse.", 
        "mma darkest moments", 
        "Possibly the most annoying time to be a MMA Fan. Greasegate and when Fedor knocked out Arlovski. \n\n\nNow if you watch fights you can see the commission guys in red jackets telling corner to hurry and wipe them down before the bell rings. Sometimes they yell it loud enough that you can hear it over the broadcast ", 
        "I we always found it funny how no one ever mentions this or forgets about it and GSP was cheating blatantly. Just like the fact that GSP retired right before the stricter testings and how he  talked he would only return when the the test were stricter and now he ia nowhere to be seen. Classic GSP, people are willing to look through the facts just because he is the perfect posterboy for MMA.", 
        "Exactly, if this was Jones, Vitor or Hughes, the community would be calling for blood.", 
        "Stricter testing came to the UFC 2 years after GSP retired and let's not pretend it has been a huge success so far (which is also what he is arguing by the way). By now GSP is in his mid 30s and hasn't been seriously training for years. Why would he come back if he doesn't need the money? You can say GSP was not the posterboy sportsman he was often heralded to be (championship nutshot anyone?), but to argue he doesn't come back now because of tougher drugtesting is just ridiculous. GSP has the money to take all the best PEDs he wants and not get caught if he really wanted.", 
        "It's worth pointing out though that after Hendricks accused GSP of juicing, GSP suggested they do voluntary WADA testing, which Hendricks declined to do, saying \"the website looked shady\".", 
        "Mainly because WADA had GSP's face plastered all over it. ", 
        "You mean VADA. WADA is not the same as VADA. Or are you putting on Hendricks laughably stupid know nothing performance? \n\n", 
        "Which Johny interpreted as it being a giant conspiracy, which is laughable. At best.", 
        "Yeh, what a idiot wanting the testing to be unbiased and fair... it's not like they are going to fight. ", 
        "Are you a GSP hater?", 
        "I love GSP, I just keep an unbiased approach, I also think Hendricks is on something if that's anything.", 
        "Are you talking about GSP or Hendricks here? Lol.\n\nYou heard it here first /r/MMA, /u/Nicholas1313 thinks GSP is in cahoots with WADA.", 
        "The old \"GreasyP\" bwahah", 
        "This is so dumb it hurts.\n\nWatch the video. Gomi vs penn Penn has his legs locked thats why gomi cant get up . CLOSED GUARD\n\nWatch penn vs gsp penns unlocks his legs and gsp stands right up. OPEN GUARD. God this hurts my head.\n\n Please diaf", 
        "You fucking goof, you're missing the point", 
        "Ok, let me make this simple for you to understand, the reason why Penn couldn't get a closed guard was because of the grease, that's the whole point of the video. Are you really going to attempt to deny the fact that this didn't effect the outcome of the fight??  ", 
        "Seems a lot more like Penn can't wrap his legs around him because gsps torso it twice the size. They still use vasaline and fighters still complain about it getting everywhere during the fight. ", 
        "I affected the fight itself yes...but not the outcome. Bj Penn winning the welterweight title was the worst thing that ever could have happened to his career. It got him thinking he could hang with the monsters of 170. GSP would have won that fight with or without the vaseline", 
        "Great job with the video! I used to change GSPs wiki every few days to make sure grease gate wasn't forgotten, they finally locked his wiki page after a few years and my edit made the final cut. ", 
        "oh noes!! teh vasoliness~~ Maybe, just maybe GSP is better than gomi/whoever??? no!! it couldnt be!!", 
        "You seriously are one of the most senile members of this community.... ", 
        "If you honestly think that Vaseline was the determinant factor in a GSP fight I just can't take you seriously at all. Funny post, though. 10/10 would lol again. ;-)", 
        "> TMZ twat: Would you consider bringing Bieber out with you?\n\n> Sure, why not?\n\nTMZ HEADLINE: \n\n *CONOR MCGREGOR:*\n\n*I'D LIKE BIEBER IN MY CORNER!!!*\n\ndamn these fucks", 
        "I watched them literally make fun of RJ Mitte because of his cerebral palsy on their show. They were all laughing and it went on for an unbelievable amount of time. ", 
        "They deserve to be slapped", 
        "With a hot piece of iron", 
        "Stockton style", 
        "I just think it's histerical how they wind people up. ", 
        "It's also hysterical that people use their site for news.", 
        "Fuck TMZ.", 
        "Also hated the way that woman just jumped in front of him to get a photo with him without saying a word. Height of rudeness.", 
        "To be fair, if I desperately wanted a photo with a celebrity, I'd probably try to get it as quickly as possible while inconveniencing them as little as possible.\n\nThat being said, I personally would never bother any celebrity in public for a pic.\n\nIf she's going to be a twat, at least she was trying to minimize the twatness.", 
        "Buttttttttt she actually maximized it? By impeding his movement and coming within 6 inches of his face,  without asking or warning. ", 
        "Yeah when I met Nick Diaz in December he was walking and I didn't want to be a pain, so I took out my phone and just said is it alright if I get a photo, I think I was the only one who asked because he pulled me inside his circle and stopped to get a good photo. He's a nice guy.", 
        "Ohh yeah this one time I meet conor mcgregor and he took me in a drive in this lambo and let me fuck his girlfriend too.. good times.", 
        "http://imgur.com/qfMnOPL excuse my poor photography and suck my wab.", 
        "Yeah because that looks like a picture he was happy and aware to be in.", 
        "Well I asked and he said yeah no problem lol. Not sure if you're familiar with the Diaz brothers but in pictures they're usually not doing cartwheels over rainbows.", 
        "Not sure if you familiar with them as Nick smiles when taking pics.", 
        "Lmao are you for real, why are you arguing this? Unlike you I was actually there for there photo. His posse was all around him, I asked is it cool if I grabbed a photo because he was right behind me, he said yeah no problem, I took the photo and said thanks, he patted me on the back and we both went our separate ways and moved on with our lives. Not really hard to believe is it. Typical r/mma psychologist.", 
        "Whats the matter, can't take a joke?", 
        "Do you have a permit to carry that extra chromosome?", 
        "Chronozone*", 
        "Why are you such a loser.", 
        ":( That hurts man, what the hell?", 
        "He looks like mexican J Cole", 
        "Was this at UFC 195?", 
        "194 ", 
        "Buddies saw nick Diaz and hung out with him at xs,i hear he's a super cool laid back dude! Didn't ask for photos,bye seemed to appreciate that.", 
        "In contrast to her, a few seconds earlier, you can hear another woman in the background ask if she can take a photo and she gets ignored.  Politeness doesn't get rewarded, which sucks.", 
        "False. Someone in his entourage said they are in a rush.", 
        "She ninja hopped and all that in front of him.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Greg Savage mentioned on the sherdog podcast that all these \"gotcha\" moments were staged though. Well at least the one where Conor calls the camera guy an asshole. ", 
        "Just wait till his celebrity grows even bigger. He'll never get left alone.", 
        "Yep. That's why a lot celebs once they get super rich and famous seclude themselves and just go to exclusive spots where they're surrounded by other people on that level of fame, and then have assistants for their day to day shit. They basically pay for their privacy. \n\nI know at first it'd probably be cool, like \"all these people love me!\" but after a while I'd be like, \"fuck I just want to go buy some damn clothes leave me alone,\" and then just start calling high end places that do house calls. \n\n", 
        "The worst thing about it is that if you lash out at these fucks you are forever labeled as short-tempered, or just an asshole.\n\nI can't imagine myself going through 4 years of this without having at least one on-camera meltdown.", 
        "he got lefted pretty good by Diaz. ", 
        ":)", 
        "ayy", 
        "And in that same respect, the people that read tabloids and visit TMZ's website. \nHow vacuous and shallow can your life be? ", 
        "How about not being so crippling pedantic that you actually care who is delivering news about your favorite hobbies to you", 
        "Conor: \"I won the first round and a half\"\n\nSo did Chad Mendes.\n", 
        "Conor spent the first round winding himself, Chad spent the first round being winded by Conor's body shots.\nBut sure if you judge a round by how hard you can lie in someones guard and finger gouge their cuts, Chad was doing well.", 
        "Ok Conor.", 
        "Naw. Conor won first round against Mendes. Lay n pray is never winning", 
        "He was completely controlled on the ground. It's not chads fault that Conor had no way of getting up off his back", 
        "What about lay and elbows?", 
        "And digging your fingers in a cut", 
        "Yeah, that was pretty much shit. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Lol", 
        "The point here though is that he was holding his own against an opponent of a higher weight class, in a higher weight class. Despite the disadvantage of his size he was still doing pretty well. \n\nChad faught well, but they're in the same weight class. ", 
        "i don't really think mendes did win both rounds, mendes took him down alright but didn't hit him many times from up top. i bet the diaz bros wouldn't think Mendes was necessarily winning the fight. ", 
        "It's called having a positive mindset.", 
        "Exactly. It sucks that no one seems to agree with it. He wasn't using it as an excuse or anything, he was simply stating that it was a competitive fight.", 
        "Conor did a lot of damage to Mendes in the first round though. Conor would be a much bigger betting favorite against Mendes than Diaz would be over Conor (actually, I'd say Conor would still be the slight favorite against Diaz).", 
        "Lol. Absolutely no.", 
        "Haha good! Another chance to make some money off the American ninja", 
        "It really depends if it's \"full-camp Mendes\" vs Conor and \"energy-efficient Conor\" vs Diaz.", 
        "no-camp-Mendes should take an example of Yacht-Diaz", 
        "> \"energy-efficient Conor\" vs \"Full camp Diaz\"\n\nFixt", 
        "[Energy Star](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_Star) Rated Conor", 
        "Photoshop wizards, you know what to do here for easy karma, and I look forward to it.", 
        "How about they give Diaz more than 2 weeks notice he's fighting?", 
        "He would have to cut to 155 though. He didn't even want to cut to 160 for this fight. It's not cut and dry that he would be a lot better. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No it's not, dude. If you've never cut weight, you have no idea how big of a difference it makes.\n\nIf they both cut to 155, they likely would have both weighed around 165-170 on fight night. \n\nDiaz was 182 on fight night, Conor was 170. \n\nThat's a HUGE advantage.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It most definitely does not, but I'm sure you have plenty of experience cutting 30+pounds in 4 days, so yeah, go ahead and think you're right lol", 
        "Because he wasn't in shape and didn't have time.", 
        "Conor also didn't have to cut though. But he had a full training camp. So if they both had to cut and both have a camp Diaz would likely perform even better than the last fight.", 
        "I know right, MMA math is always right.", 
        "That's not what MMA Math is though. MMA math is saying x>y and y>z so x>z. What I'm using is called logic - If you took a disadvantage away from Diaz he would perform better.", 
        "I mean it is fun to guess what may or may not happen in certain situations, but at the end of the day a fight can go either way, that's what I love about MMA. Like you don't think Conor could win that fight no matter what? Conor was the favorite for that fight, but Nate brought is A game and absolutely smashed him 100%. Point is anything can happen.", 
        "Yeah anything can happen. The point still stands though. Nate with a training camp is better than Nate without one. Obviously Conor could still pull of the win but since we saw Nate beat him on 10 days notice it's reasonable to assume Nate would beat him on a full camp.", 
        "Well, Conor was prepared to cut to 155. Diaz declined 160 pounds and asked for 165. It's not unreasonable to say that he could have been 10 pounds heavier than McGregor on fight night. ", 
        ">Humble in defeat.            ", 
        "Someone post that picture of the fat dude on the couch saying he \"wouldnt have tapped\", thats this guy.", 
        "He definitely won the first round. Do you want him to lie?", 
        "He arguably lost the first half of the first round", 
        "Meaningless when you consider the rest of the round. He adjusted to the reach differential, and his adjustment bore fruit until he got wobbled attempting a reckless lead uppercut in the 2nd.", 
        "Meaningless when you consider the rest of the fight.", 
        "We're not talking about the fight. We're talking about who won the first round. The first half of the round was even. McGregor went on to win the round. Learn to read.", 
        "Winning a round in a 5 round fight that ends in KO/sub is not saying much.\n\n\nSomeone may decide to go 100% in R1, thus pretty much ensuring a loss against an opponent who conserves energy for later rounds. This is also close to what happened in this fight. Conor had no gas left and Nate was ready to 3 more rounds, easy.", 
        "i rewatched it and it was a lot closer than i initially thought.  don't let the blood fool you, nate just cuts a lot easier due to his scar tissues.  nate wasn't loading up on his shots like conor, but he landed a lot of nice stiff jabs and short right hooks.", 
        "I got blasted for stating this in the post fight. People were too caught up in Conor swinging for the fences to see Nate hitting him consistently on the way out. ", 
        "It's almost like it's Nate's style or something, to gas people out by making them think \"Oh i can hit this guy, his hands aren't so fast.\" The Diaz' turn everyone into gassed out power punchers. It's truly martial arts combat, turning your opponents biggest strength into their biggest weakness.", 
        "Do you know the concept of being humble? Are people that lose not allowed to talk about the GOOD things they did in the octagon?", 
        "Did he? I might not remember very well but not the way i remember it.. \nFair point that it doesn\u00b4t matter if you\u00b4re winning until you get submitted though.", 
        "Mendes most definitely did not win the first round. He seemed in control and winning the second... until he got knocked out. This is a full on circlejerk going on here. ", 
        "Agreed. It was a close round, but I don't think Chad dominated it like some people try to say.", 
        "All three judges gave that round to Mendes so whether you like it or not he won the first round", 
        "Mendes did win that 1st round but people act like the multiple kicks to Chad's gut had no effect on the match. Everyone says Chad gassed because no full camp, had nothing to do with kicks after kicks to the body.", 
        "Saying something's a circlejerk because it goes against your opinion is ridiculous. It wasn't a dominant round but Chad won round 1.", 
        "> It wasn't a dominant round but Chad won round 1.\n\nThis is my problem with the argument. Conor haters like to try to make it seem like it was complete domination in the first. It wasn't. \n", 
        "I'd say he was, but it wasn't as dominant as he likes to make out. I'd say Chad had a more dominant round and a half. But mcgregor was in that fight the whole way just as diaz was in this one.", 
        "He did.", 
        "I also find it hilarious that he talks like it means something..... In a five round fight. Even if Nate hadn't gotten him the second, things were only gonna get worse for him.", 
        "To be fair it would have gotten worse for Nate too. He had a pretty nasty cut that could have potentially called for a doctor's stoppage.", 
        "In a way I'd have liked Nate to just drag it out for three more rounds, completely beating him to a pulp.  I bet he'd still say \"I won the first round and a half!\"", 
        "McGregor lost because he is too reckless (ie. that lead uppercut attempt that got him wobbled) and didn't conserve energy. Out-striking Diaz for the first round and a half, despite his size disadvantages is certainly not meaningless.\n\nIt means something because it shows what could potentially happen in the future, if McGregor is more careful, and conserves stamina for a 5 round fight. And more importantly, trains for a 5 round fight.", 
        "Nah, Mcgregor lost because he wasn't the better fighter.", 
        "So his title fight with rda wasn't 5 rounds? Of course he was training for a 5 round fight and just two weeks out they changed fighters. ", 
        "I do think there is room for an argument that suggests he doesn't lose quite as much energy in the RDA fight though. Nothing to do with that round bs, but exploding in past diaz' range and the many shots that missed (some of his straight lefts and uppercuts along with his spinning kicks) clearly took his cardio away from him. I think if he were fighting Dos Anjos he'd land more of those shots, which in turn would help with his cardio and impede RDA's. Not saying he wins, but his cardio would look better.", 
        "You're looking past RDA's takedown/fence grind which takes way more energy out of you then what Nate was doing. (imo)", 
        "Mcgregor's uppercut seemed to be tailor-made for when RDA shoots, it's a shame we were robbed of that fight.", 
        "The people downvoting did not want to see an RDA fight. Not even RDA wanted that fight.", 
        "I'm getting downvoted because of my flair I think. I just stated a fact that mcgregor seemed to be preparing the uppercut as a counter to RDA. RDA did want that fight, he broke his foot. Nobody who is able to run through pettis like that would be scared to take a fight against anyone, including mcgregor", 
        "Nah, we got an even better fight. ", 
        "we got a good fight, that doesn't mean I'm not interested to see how the mcgregor RDA fight would go", 
        "He was training to knock someone out in round 1. That's what he was training for.", 
        "Well that is incredibly stupid to train form", 
        "So is every mma fighter, but the fact remains it was for a title fight that was five rounds and the fight with Nate was still 5 rounds. ", 
        "Cruz", 
        ">So is every mma fighter\n\nNo, not exactly. It's quite common to train for a stamina war and go in with a game plan to fight conservative and get it to the late rounds.\n\n", 
        "Well yeah, I mean it's a dream to knock every opponent out in the first but that doesn't always happen. That's what I was eluding to. ", 
        "McGregor lost because he fought to his strengths rather than Diaz's weakness and has fewer tools in his shed.  Winning a 'half' round against a volume striker is meaningless if you don't get the other guy out of his game.  ", 
        "It's funny you mention that because him fighting to his strengths rather than Diaz's weaknesses falls in line of SBG's training philosophy as treating all fighters the same and basically just working on your own strengths. ", 
        "He's saying it in the context of the question \"Would you like to do a rematch\", not diminishing Nate's win.  You're worse then the 'reporters' on TMZ.\nIf Connor lovers are hugging his nuts you Connor haters are licking his taint.", 
        "Than*", 
        "Conors crotch is a very busy area I see.", 
        "Have him watch Chael v Anderson 1.", 
        "#[Mirror for non-US viewiers.](https://vid.me/ixIj)", 
        "You're so kind. ", 
        "Im in the US, I just dont want TMZ to have my click", 
        "how about we dont post TMZ shit", 
        "Doesn't matter that it's TMZ, it has McGregor content therefore it goes on the ride to the top of the sub.\n\n", 
        "Just like the Diaz circlejerk then?\n\"Video of Diaz at 16\" straight to the top", 
        "Well Diaz won, Mcgregor lost like the bitch... So Diaz deserves it.", 
        "Yep, pretty much. The difference is that will last another week or two and die off.", 
        "This sub has always nuthugged the Diaz brothers, that will not go away in two weeks.", 
        "I wouldn't really say the sub is overrun by them, but they have VERY vocal/loyal/passionate fans and they are not going anywhere. But the wave of everyone voting anything Diaz to the top of /r/mma will subside MUCH quicker than it does for McGregor/Ronda. My guess is it will take a week or two.", 
        "Gotta love the influx of new fans after 196... /s", 
        "twice", 
        "Those TMZ leeches are going after Conor hard these days.", 
        "Well he let them know he doesn't like them recently and now they're gunning for reactions from him.", 
        "They're nothing more than fucking parasites, dude", 
        "Well they're making money. The people who gobble this stuff up foot the bill", 
        "Supply and demand. We all watched it. If people didn't watch it they wouldn't make it. ", 
        "It's kind of shocking to see people keep posting tmz posts in this sub. ", 
        "These TMZ guys are like parasites..", 
        "They are like real life South Park characters.", 
        "It must be in the TMZ reporter's rulebook that they have to somehow make every story connect to Justin Bieber. The cunts always bring him up no matter how irrelevant.", 
        "I was hoping that he'd have a fantastic insult for that piece of shit and got the exact opposite.  I'm disappointed, Conor.", 
        "The disappointment continues", 
        "Why is he a piece of shit?", 
        "Assault, vandalism, reckless driving, DUI.  Take your pick.\n\nCelebrities shouldn't get the \"rehab and a charitable donation\" settlement option to avoid jail time.  If they aren't punished like regular civilians, they'll never learn and keep acting like they're above the law.\n\nAnd on a less serious note, like Drake, he's a front-runner groupie.  He's trying to attach himself to Conor the same way he attached himself to Mayweather.  That shit is just annoying.", 
        "Is it weird that my reaction to reading was, \"what does Jones have to do with this video\"?", 
        "Or perhaps he's not as deeply ingrained in US pop culture and only knows that Justin Bieber is a famous singer?", 
        "\"won the first round and a half\"\n\nLOL", 
        "In other words.... I was winning until I was losing. ", 
        "He's taking Chael's shtick. 'I beat Anderson for 5 rounds, he wraps his legs around my head and he's the winner?' ", 
        "That is what I loved about Chael, his shameless excuse making that he never really believed.\n\nHe was literally his own most rabid fan boy....after myself of course.\n\nHAIL SONNEN !", 
        "Unless you're actually Chael..?", 
        "Rampage Jackson accused me on his stream of being the Lord Sonnen himself....lol\n\nI am merely his humble disciple.", 
        "cHAIL SONNEN", 
        ">'I was winning right up until I lost..'\n\nMhmm. ", 
        "Someone pointed out how it's the exact same talk as Mendes. \n\nAt the next conference Conor will be asking Nate for a rematch saying he's more efficient now. ", 
        "Lol. This whole thing was a lot of \"sure........ \" clearly not interested in being questioned on the street. Being a journalist is one thing, but this type of crap, I don't think I could do it. Ask for an interview. Is that so hard?", 
        "McGregor already handling his loss way better than Ronda did", 
        "I don't think it's possible to handle it worse tbh", 
        "My god how awful that must feel/be for someone to come so close to your face, pose, and take a selfie then continue to walk in front of you taking more pictures and videos.", 
        "I'm just realizing Bieber used to walk out with Mayweather when he boxed. Why is he a fan of someone who calls out Mayweather constantly?", 
        "It strikes his ego to be seen in public with world class ass kickers. ", 
        "Because he's a bandwagon fan ", 
        "Justin Bieber has something like 50 million twitter followers.  If even half of them are real people, that's 25 million people to advertise something to.\n\nEvery time Mayweather fought, he had Bieber back to the dressing room before the fight, and asked him to tweet to his followers asking them to buy PPV.  It's marketing, & Bieber was too stupid to realize he was just being used as a marketing tool.", 
        "I actually always thought Bieber completely understood but he got to walk out with Floyd and sit ringside and get in the ring afterward so he didn't care.", 
        "Bieber actually hates sports.", 
        "> Bieber was too stupid to realize he was just being used as a marketing tool.\n\nwho's to say he didn't get paid?", 
        "It works both ways. Bieber got some free mainstream publicity between albums. ", 
        "Conor attitude to Mayweather is different to Rondas. Conor was asked questions about fighting Floyd. Ronda when out of her way to bring up Mayweather e.g. The ESPY's. So, to say that Conor \"calls out Mayweather constantly\" is wrong.", 
        "It seems so intrusive. Uncomfortable watching. ", 
        "Conor is such a respectful and private person, why won't the media leave him alone????!?!?!\n\nOh yeah he's the opposite of that, get the anal probes ready!!!!", 
        "Can't watch the vid right now how does Conor look? Does he still seem demoralized and broken or his usual confident self? Also would be good if we can just read about the video instead of giving TMZ more hits by watching the vid. ", 
        "Still looking like a snake oil salesman selling wolf tickets to retards.", 
        "He looks good. This vid is actually all right, the only stupid bit in here is when he asks if McGregor would like Bieber to walk out with him to the octagon and Conor just tells him \"sure, why not\". Other questions are good, Conor will not change his approach to selling fights and he would like to fight Nate again in the future. Nothing ground breaking.", 
        "His shirt is ugly as sin but he looks to be in ok spirits. ", 
        "that tee really is a new level of ugly", 
        "I am guessing the $2 mil he made for the fight helped lift his spirits", 
        "fuck me i liked it", 
        "[Here you go](http://store.dolcegabbana.com/us/dolce-gabbana/short-sleeve-t-shirts_cod37847538ac.html#dept=PmTs&itemPage=3)\n", 
        "> His shirt is ugly as sin  \n\nI guess he really is back to his old self. ", 
        "He still made goofy shirt money. That's what's up.", 
        "TMZ and their reporters ask such stupid questions and obviously bait for headlines. ", 
        "Everyone gives off about TMZ and yet we have people here linking their cancerous tabloid shit...", 
        "[Reminds me of this](https://youtu.be/SgqlqGyXqXk)", 
        "\" I started this so people would leave me the fuck alone\"- Conor Mcgregor", 
        "Leave Conor alone", 
        "Man, I really like both Conor and Nate - and the fact that there really is a rivalry between the two now is great. Little by little you will see Conor, Regardless of losing; start commencing the trash talk toward Nate again. $$$.", 
        "This interview has no substance. Much like every tmz interview, lets stop posting this shit, they don't deserve the views", 
        "If Notorious walked out with Bieber he might lose me as a fan..", 
        "Who cares if you won the first round and a half? That's like saying I captured more pieces than you in the beginning of a chess match.", 
        "Marketing, it's all about marketing. Conor isn't going to say no I don't want a rematch. He will make a case for it.", 
        "I don't think he wants any of that. I wouldn't be surprised if they never fight again. Nate is just a horrible match up for Conor.\n\nConor doesn't have to go through Nate to get the 155 belt and they will probably give Nate some horrible match ups now to knock him down a peg.", 
        "That option is there now though. Let's say Conor defends the belt against Aldo and Edgar and wins and then makes the move to 155. That rematch would sell big at some point at 155. Would be awesome with full camp build up too.", 
        "It's important for an athlete's psyche. It's not like he feels he can't be competitive with Diaz.", 
        "My god...why am I watching this *hhh*-*hhh*-*hhhorseshit*?", 
        "Easy there Callen", 
        "Would be nice to see this happen on more than just short notice fights.", 
        "Hard to gain ground on division rankings if you are fighting out of it. Doesnt Reebok payout reflect your ranking as well?", 
        "That was the direction they almost went with the Reebok payout, [but it changed to how many fights you have with the UFC.](http://www.mmamania.com/2015/5/6/8560827/pic-ufc-fighter-leaks-reebok-payouts-tenure-tier-for-uniform-sponsorship-deal-mma) ", 
        "I don't really agree. You can do significant body recomposition in only a few months.", 
        "One day someone is gonna agree and do it anyway, coming in way bigger, and the trend will be done.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yes, if you have full notice you can easily bulk and cut atleast some weight. Also guys at 155 dont all walk at 170 off-camp. Its easy.", 
        "It'd be pretty obvious before it got to that stage if a Rory MacDonald sized guy agrees with a Jose Aldo sized guy not to cut weight and fight at 170 lbs... I don't see your scenario ever happening- they only agree if they know their walkaround weight is similar.", 
        "There's no record books of walking weight buddy. You just dont know what the difference between say Ferguson and Khabibs walking weight is. But it COULD easily be 10lbs, that is fact.", 
        "You've given an example of 2 guys who compete in the same weight class in the current system anyway... There's no problem if this new trend leads to guys like those 2 fighting.\n\nFrom your comment I thought you were worried about guys clearly much larger/heavier cutting down to their opponents walkaround weight under the guise that neither of them were cutting. That's just not a realistic worry, would be so clearly evident.", 
        "Say those two agree to a fight at 185.(guessing that's close to khabibs walk around) Ferguson is going to be 200+ pounds cutting to 185 because he has a frame that would allow him to get much bigger than Khabib.", 
        "Dat flair...", 
        "That already happens. Like Tom Breese vs. Keita Nakamura for example.", 
        "It's similar but not even close to the extent in that hypothetical scenario, Nakamura even took Breese down every round.", 
        "If that fighter was bigger before, he's still going to be bigger afterwards. \n\nAnd if he puts on extra muscle/fat to his frame, just to capitalize on the lack of weight cut, he's probably gonna show up slower and gas faster. It's a trade-off.", 
        "How? I don't get it", 
        "Cutting weight when you both agree not to and just weigh in in the division above where you  usually fight (like Pearson and Laprise are doing) means that by going ahead and actually cutting weight would not make you the bigger man on fight night.", 
        "Sure it would. If you have a full 2-3+ months to plan your fight thats easy work ", 
        "In 2-3 months you can add maybe 6 lb of muscle. And that's not while training for an MMA fight, which takes up more recovery. So any amount you could add would be negligible", 
        "To be fair, a peak condition athlethe casually adding 6lbs of muscle in 2 months would be pretty amazing, i could really only see guys who were keeping themselves small or someone who is fat able to do it or you know, roids. Someone who is already ripped is gonna have a harder time packing on muscle. Adding 6lbs is pretty big deal, especially if you are ripped at 155lbs, adding that mass in two months while also training for an mma fight would be massive feat imo \n\nEdit i think i missunderstood you and we are saying the same thing", 
        "Agreed. I was being very generous with the 6 lb.", 
        "Sure, of course, I'm talking about situations specifically like this fight where it's a case of late replacement and both guys agree to just show up at their walk around weight which will usually put the bout into the division above where they usually compete.\n\nIt makes no sense as things stand now for guys to agree to no weight cuts for a normal fight scheduled 2-3 months in advance as it would take them out of their weight class and a win would not affect their standing in their division. These agreements are only going to take place for late replacement fights until actual changes are made in the weight cutting procedure across the board.", 
        "Yeah, but my comment was in reply to s guy saying it would be nice to have for non-short notice fights. Simply saying thats unrealistic and core changes need to happen for that.", 
        "Sure, sure. Sorry I wasn't clear myself.", 
        "He's saying that you could agree to not cut weight, then put on a bunch of mass like Conor did when he was going to fight at 155, and then cut weight so that you're still bigger than your opponent after rehydrating.", 
        ">  then put on a bunch of mass like Conor did when he was going to fight at 155\n\nHow did that work out for him? Putting on mass for quickly for one fight can fuck with your cardio.", 
        "Except his loss had very little to do with cardio and more with the fact he played into Nate's game and got swarmed ", 
        "It's both. He played into Nates game yes but that was partly because he gassed so easily.", 
        "He was playing into nates game from the onset. And he really didn't slow down much until he got clipped", 
        "Idk, he looked comparatively slow from the start of round 2", 
        "Fighting like he did in the first would be so fucking tiring. I think he really knew he needed too knock Diaz out early.", 
        "Fighters are typically goven an 8 week training camp, maybe a few weeks more notice. Its hard to put on that much mass in that amount of time without PEDs, especially if you want to actually train some cardio and actual mma as well. I dont think it will be a problem. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "More like fat. Did you see much vascularity or bulk ? ", 
        "He put on weight, it wasnt much but he put on weight.", 
        "I thought so too based off all the comments about him being \"steak fed\" and stuff. However on fight night he looked really similar, don't know what I expected, he only had time to put on 2-3lbs of muscle.", 
        "2-3 pounds is too much.. 1.5 tops but i think it was some fat too. He never quite looked that full inbetween fights as a 145er..", 
        "[Sure?](http://www.bjpenn.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/McGregor-comparisson-.png)", 
        "Everyone on this sub was talking about how much bigger he got after the Aldo fight and he's quite clearly bigger in the right photo, don't know why you're being downvoted", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Did you mean Diego Brandao?", 
        "They're the equivalent shots from Embedded promos, so it's not like he deliberately chose ones with different lighting. I don't believe that he didn't cut anything for the Diaz fight.\n\nConor has always been big, but he sure as shit looked bigger after Aldo.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Body composition might well be it.", 
        "I just did some photoshopping, and the \"after\" picture seems to be stretched out. If is superpose the two images and try to align some features ( eyes, mouth, nipples, navel and some points on the tiger) I get that: http://imgur.com/a/4uJs6", 
        "Super work. Thanks", 
        "would be nice if they just fought at that weight... and most WWs just fought at MW,... and so on\n", 
        "Seriously. Why isn't there a rule that fighters are weighed the week before the fight, then at the traditional weigh-in date, and then on fight night, and the difference can't be over X percentage of bodyweight?", 
        "There's a billion problems with boxing, and the WBC specifically, but they do have [30- and 7-day weigh-ins for their title fights](http://fightnetwork.com/news/6395150:wbc-releases-statement-on-mandatory-30-day-weigh-ins/), with 10% and 5% over limitations. Which seems to make pretty good sense. ", 
        "Because it just shifts when you cut weight, it doesn't eliminate it.", 
        "> weighed the week before the fight, then at the traditional weigh-in date, and then on fight night,\n\n", 
        "Not if they have multiple weigh ins before the fight and including the fight night. Right now they dehydrate themselves for weigh in, and on fight night they are much heavier than their stated weight from the night before. ", 
        "Bingox just like many wrestlers cut more weight to get below the weight limit and then chug water to get back up to the weight  to pass hydration tests", 
        "That's what I did when I wrestled. ", 
        "\"Hey Conor, no weight cut, just you and me, mano y mano.\"  -Entire Heavyweight roster", 
        "Minor Spanish quibble: It's \"mano a mano\" (\"hand to hand\"). \"Mano y mano\" is \"hand and hand\". ", 
        "Good to know, guess we've all been meaning the opposite thing this entire time.", 
        "Viva la Brasilia!", 
        "TIL", 
        "So many people think it means \"man to man\". The next that ask me if we can talk \"mano a mano\", I will punch in the face.", 
        "Really? I had no idea people used the phrase that way. Reminds me of the phrase \"per se,\" which people use as another way to say \"so to speak,\" when it really means \"all by itself.\"", 
        "TIL", 
        "Nah - punch him in the [HAND](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wq1CCu6rKN4)", 
        "\"Just you and me, holding hands\" ", 
        "Exactly why I felt the clarification was necessary. Sounded like the whole heavyweight roster wanted to go out on a date with Conor.", 
        "Which is ridicilous of course, at most two thirds of the heavyweight roster wants to go on a date with McGregor", 
        "They want that XXL red panty night. ", 
        "He IS pretty dreamy.", 
        "doze tats", 
        "\"Hey Brock, buddy I got a favor to ask you, would you fill my proxy?\" -Conor", 
        "That would be some real WWE stuff ", 
        "*in thick Irish accent*\n\n\"After losing to Diaz, I thought some things over and I've had to make some decisions. I need someone on my team thinking of my best interests. So I'd like to introduce you all to my new manager.\"\n\n\"LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, MY NAME IS PAUL HEYMAN...\"", 
        "BAH GOD GOOD GOD ALMIGHTY IT'S KANEE", 
        "Bah God that has to be...\n\nThat has to be...\n\nCain!!!", 
        "Kane!!!", 
        "Joe Rogan is going to be so happy. ", 
        "Most MMA fans should be happy", 
        "\"Laprise and Pearson called me and wanted to fight in superheavyweight I love these guys Can't wait for this fight\"\n\u2014Dana White", 
        "This is awesome... until one is 170 and the other is 185 and cuts down to 170. ", 
        "Winner", 
        "Shouldn't we be able to tell what natural weight class a persons bone structure and muscle mass should belong in? Could we not just guilt them into staying in that weight class, or even force them. The reality of a persons optimal natural size shouldn't be that hard to find out and keep in check. We start with a template of their optimal size after a training camp, and if they want to go down or up a weight class they would have to prove that its their new walking around weight for a substantial time period. I don't know, I just don't see why it would be impossible to keep a person from cutting weight. They're out there somewhere weighing a natural weight, its not like we don't know when and how much they're cutting when they do.", 
        "It works as an honour system, and when folks start trying to take advantage of it by cutting weight when their opponent doesn't it'll fall back apart. Until there's an Absolute division, guys will still have to weigh in and make weight, they're just agreeing right now to a walking weight. Hopefully this happens enough to justify something like OneFC's new system. ", 
        "For fights like this is there a reason why they can't weigh in on the day of the fight instead of the day before?", 
        "What if a guy is 172? He needs to be 170. So he will just not eat breakfast and then he is 170. \n\nBut if he is 173, maybe he eats breakfast but hits the sauna for 20 minutes. \n\nWhat if he is 174? 175? 178? 185? \n\nSet a weight... and we will hit up. Anything else will be exploited. ", 
        "A professional athlete should be able to make sure that when they eat breakfast the day of their fight they will still be at the correct weight. Just think of it as fighting at your natural weight. Every morning I weigh myself I am within a pound or two of the day before, a fighter should just put more effort into daily and nightly checking their weight so weight cutting can be eliminated. \n\nMaybe the allowance for random weight checks should be five pounds to account for natural weight fluctuation, but then come to the very last non-random weigh in before the fight you should be able to make sure you are at your natural weight with a one pound allowance at most. \n\nA fighter should only get in trouble for being outside of the pound allowance. If the allowance is five pounds and for example the fighter is a 170er but he his walk around weight is 175, if he gets randomly weight checked for 176 he doesn't deserve to be in that weight class because he is dishonest about his natural weight so he should either make his walk around weight closer to 170 or move to 185.\n\nThe point is there has to be a better system than weight cutting, and I don't see why building rules around random weight checks won't work", 
        "I started typing it out... but I am not going to argue. Deleted it all. Watch this https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nLEl7eoGf5Q", 
        "How do you feel about ONE's attempt to \"fix\" weight cutting?", 
        "He answered that here:\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nLEl7eoGf5Q", 
        "Thanks!", 
        "How much do you cut, Joe? Or would you prefer not to say.\n\nEdit: Awesome, thanks Joe!!", 
        "I weigh 172 right now and would still be 172 when I land... wake at 170 day before weigh-in day. Step in the sauna at 168. Cut to 160 that night... wake 158, 2 more pounds in the sauna that morning to hit 156. \n\nLast fight I couldn't IV, but I still got back to 172 for fight night. ", 
        "Do you change your diet or water intake or salt intake during that time?", 
        "Yup. Water goes up. Salt goes down. ", 
        "Reminds me of my wrestling days thst 2.0 lbs overnight was like clock work ", 
        "Do you think it would help if they did same day weigh ins?", 
        "No. Way worse having same day weigh-ins because people will still cut but will not have sufficient time to rehydrate. ", 
        "Jockeys in horse racing weigh in 20 minutes before the race, and they still cut massive weight.  Nutters!", 
        "Holy shit. That's why I find the heavyweight division so interesting. It's a range of 50 pounds, so you often have guys who don't have to cut, but in all the other divisions, it's pretty much necessary. \n\nAnd then there's Brock Lesnar, who cut to 265.", 
        "It's a range of 59 pounds actually. It goes from 206-265. ", 
        "Doesn't mark hunt cut too?", 
        "I'm sure there are others, but Brock Lesnar has always stuck out in my mind. He, in his prime, was the most fun fighter I've ever seen.", 
        "How so? I never thought he was that exciting. ", 
        "He has an aura.", 
        "Did you watch him bullrush/brutalize Heath Herring? I was never a big fan of his, but he did absolutely brutalize a few people on his way to the title.", 
        "Oh definitely. I followed his career even his fight at the coliseum. After he bull rush though, he really didn't do much to Heath. ", 
        "He had the potential to be exciting but was usually a snooze fest watching him fight ", 
        "\ud83d\ude10", 
        "I bet it's just seeing a guy like that move and fight in general.\n\nKind of like how Ubereem was a thing just to behold.", 
        "He did move very fast for a guy that big.", 
        "I've heard that Hunt cuts from around 300.", 
        "[He came in MUCH fitter last time.](http://fightland.vice.com/blog/mike-swick-brings-us-inside-mark-hunts-ufc-193-camp-at-aka-thailand)  \n\n", 
        "He was over 300 coming in to the Werdum fight on short notice, but I don't know what kind of shape he's in these days.", 
        "Mark Hunt, Ben Rothwell, Soa Paleilei before retirement...", 
        "> re others, but Brock Lesnar has always stuck out in my mind. He, in his prime, was the most fun fighter I've ever s\n\nBigfoot cuts to 265 too\n", 
        "And Dada", 
        "This is exactly why this only works for short notice fights between people in the same weight class. Otherwise you have the same issue you had with weight cutting to begin with.", 
        "That is why the UFC needs to get behind this and do what ONE FC does and weigh fighters periodically to make sure they aren't too far from their weight. This extra work is definitely worth it to stop weight cutting", 
        "I disagree. ", 
        "Why?", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nLEl7eoGf5Q", 
        "The problem with this guys argument is he is assuming he'll stay in the same weight class. If he walks around at 170 then under a no weight cutting system he shouldn't be fighting at 155. I understand his concern that other fighters will cheat the system, though, and questions about the legitimacy of the weigh ins. Those are all problems that need to get dealt with, but in the long run it would probably be better if guys fought at a natural weight. ", 
        "FYI, \"this guy\" is the guy you're responding to.", 
        "Weight fluctuates. Take that into account in your training. Join your appropriate weight class. You act like only you will have to adhere to these standards. Your opponents will too. \n\nI get that it will be an issue now, but if it's implemented now the next generation of fighters will join their appropriate weight classes, and this won't be an issue.\n\nI do agree with you on your \"who's going to do this?\" point. The UFC could probably afford to have someone fly out and test every fighter, but not the smaller promotions.", 
        "Awesome! I wish more fighters would do this. \n\nI always wondered why two guys the same size wouldn't just agree to not cut any weight.", 
        "As another poster said, when you have three months you can agree not to cut, bulk up and cut anyway, and come to fight the much larger man", 
        "So weigh them right before the fight.", 
        "That's how people die man. Do you know anything about weight cutting at all? ", 
        "This is absolutely not what he means... The guy is saying that if they are going to weigh fighters right before the fight, they would fight on their respective and natural weights, not needing to cut any weight. If a guy weighs 190 pound and fights at 170, why don't he just fight at 185 for the sake of NOT cutting weight at all, eliminating the risks it brings?", 
        ">if they are going to weigh fighters right before the fight, they would fight on their respective and natural weights, not needing to cut any weight.\n\nThat's not what would happen though. They would still cut to get a size advantage and it's dangerous. What if they miss weight the first time and then they are dehydrating more like an hour or two before the fight.", 
        "If you fight severely dehydrated your strength is shit, you have no endurance and the \"size advantage\" you gained is worthless. If you don't believe me, throw on the trash bags, go sweat off 10 lbs, catch your breath then see how much you lost from your personal 3 rep max, then hop on the treadmill and see how long it takes you to gas.\n\nThe reason the weight cut still offers a big advantage is because they have time to rehydrate and regain the lost strength. Take away that recovery time and you take away the reason for doing it. The guys who insist on a deep cut with same day weigh ins are going to perform like Anthony Johnson at 170. They'll either get with the program and move up to an acceptable weight where they have solid performance or will get wrecked by much smaller gatekeepers like Koscheck who are fighting hydrated.", 
        " High schools wrestlers have hour before weigh ins. I personally cut 6-8 pounds (to get to 132 pounds), other people would cut as much as 10-15. Also we have much less time to do it as we have multiple competitions a week. It is just a part of fighting sports.", 
        "I used to wrestle before the new weigh in rules, our cuts were significantly deeper than what you do now. \n\nI still compete in judo and we have same day weigh ins now, the cuts are far more modest and typically aim to get you just a few lbs lighter if you're near the bottom of a bracket. I'm speaking from personal experience when I say that with same day weigh ins, high performers aren't making huge cuts like they did in the bad old days.", 
        "I mean so they don't cut weight.", 
        "They would still cut and fight dehydrated. The problem is concussions are much more likely or severe or something when dehydrated", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "*sigh* Include a hydration test and make it a bannable offense to cheat. Make it so they have to be very hydrated 24 hours before the fight, so they most likely won't go up and have no incentive to fight dehydrated. If they're a little over the limit the fight is still on but you take a chunk of their fight money, like they do now.\n\nIf you really think the current system of allowing a size advantage is good for the sport, there are better ways to achieve that than to have fighters cut 20+ lbs. 24 hours before the bout.", 
        "Hydration test and weigh in? ", 
        "Wouldn't the world be a much better place if less time was wasted saving idiots from themselves...", 
        "No probably not, because almost everyone is an idiot at times. ", 
        "Doesnt the other org does a weigh in like few weeks before the fight and the fighters have to maintain that weight", 
        "The best way is to have regular weight testing like they do drug testing.", 
        "Unless you are taking Super Soldier Serum....   no.  ", 
        "You won't be able to add that much muscle in 2-3 months, especially while training for a MMA fight", 
        "But the point is that it would just be like a general shift higher in weight classes, with people still attempting to cut down and lying about \"walking\" weight. It is advantageous if done correctly, and leads to more exciting fights, so why should we limit it.", 
        "This could be true. But the way I see it, most fighters have already figured out their optimum builds. A lot of fighters at 155 have been walking around at the same weight and build for years without making adjustments. But if they have room to grow and add mass without compromising their performance, then they rightly should. That's only going to result in better, more powerful fighters.\n\nBut for the majority of guys, who are already at their optimum builds, that three months won't make that much of a difference (outside of not having to cut weight). They will probably stay training at the same clip, because most fighters have already pushed themselves to their physical peaks. \n\nIf some still want to try to overcompensate and add more bulk to an already-ideal frame, it will more often than not only hurt their performances... Fighters not having to starve themselves will make their existing training more sustainable, yes. But past that, I don't think many guys will try to strategically balloon up. At least not with it being constructive.", 
        "I really hope this becomes a thing.", 
        "[So hot right now](https://imgflip.com/i/10rr5f)", 
        "Pearson is a true warrior, hope he wins. ", 
        "Nah man that's Andy Wang.", 
        "Rogan is having a good month", 
        "Awesome.  Are we seeing a sea change beginning?", 
        "most likely not. it would take a lot of change to happen and more rules but i hope so", 
        "I hope so.  Mma should be about your skills in the ring, not about your ability to cut weight effectively", 
        "But won't this affect the winner's lightweight ranking if the fight is at welterweight?", 
        "Man i really hope this prompts more and more fighters to begin to take the idea of not cutting. Just for the safety of the sport.", 
        "Joe Rogan is reading this masturbating right now.", 
        "Pearson: I feel like I was inefficient with my energy. ", 
        "an end to weight cutting would be an incredible change.", 
        "Conor fans be like, HE DID IT FIRST!!", 
        "pearson obviously trying to copy conor", 
        "Aayyee, I'm not surprised muthafuckkaa", 
        "Well... Penn, Edgar...\n\nI suppose many of them wouldn't recognize those names though.", 
        "sage was first", 
        "Sage bless", 
        "Aahhaaa yes sir :D you're right sir phet aahaa only on fight pass", 
        "Is there a back story to this ? As in, was Pearson supposed to fight someone else and Laprise is the late call up ?", 
        "Pearson was supposed to fight Abel Trujillo.", 
        "Ahh.. Thanks.", 
        "He's a motherfucker dude.", 
        "100%.", 
        "such a great idea, hopefully more fighters start to think like this. ", 
        "This needs to happen more.  I don't know why they don't make this the norm.  So much safer.", 
        "I remember when Sam Stout and KJ Noons did this. Hopefully more follow this trend", 
        "I really like this no weight cut trend. Hope there are more fights like this.", 
        "This is awesome. With out the weight cut you will get to see the fighter who walks around day to day. Not the dehydrated skeletons that turn up to weigh ins.", 
        "That's pretty cool of them", 
        "If they weighed the guys at the same time they are doing the drug testing and let say during the 3 month camp a few random times. then you fight at that weight. Safe, easy, healthy?", 
        "Ross trains at my gym a fair bit when he is in Australia, I have always wondered how he even makes lightweight, let alone those featherweight fights. Dude is solid as.", 
        "this is the future.", 
        "Not sure if that's going to help or hurt Laprise's cardio.", 
        "Both going up a weight class on short notice,  so Conor like brave.  -Dana -Kenny", 
        "[**@MMA_Jim**](https://twitter.com/MMA_Jim):\n>[2016-03-13 15:43:42 UTC](https://twitter.com/MMA_Jim/status/709042260013412353)\n\n>Wouldn\u2019t it be cool if more fighters would do this!! [#Respect](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23Respect) to [@RossTheRealDeal](https://twitter.com/RossTheRealDeal) and [@ChadLaprise](https://twitter.com/ChadLaprise) \\- Great fight [*pic.twitter.com*](https://t.co/Ie0TzYDPrE)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4a8qhp%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "I wonder if the UFC gave a bonus to fighters who take fights without cutting weight could make a difference", 
        "is this guy some sort of saiyan dudes walking around perma flexed the fuck", 
        "That explains his haircut ", 
        "well lets put it this way, that bike in the pic isn't the only one he's riding. \n\n*Hint: He's on steroids/HGH*, literally though, not as in the Nate Diaz meme.", 
        "\nEdit: What is taking so long?  I need to get to 1,000 downvotes please.\n\n\nHGH?  He's HIGH, on HGH?  And hgh what, makes you look like this? My god, you haven't got a clue what you're talking about.  It's pretty obvious you've never lifted a weight, and you damn sure know nothing about him being \"high\" on steroids, or steroids in general.\n\nReally though, this is one of the stupidest, most misinformed things I've read.  That's really saying something, as I've been a very active redditor for 6 years.", 
        "I never said the word 'high', learn to read. and yes I lift weights, I know a steroid user when I see one, I follow bodybuilding, perhaps moreso than you if you aren't familiar with the term riding a bike.\n\nYou're simply a naive idiot if you think he hasn't used anything and naturally looks like that at 19. ", 
        "Nobody says riding a bike unless they are a noob.  You probably heard that in an after-school special.  And you damn sure don't know a user if you think this guy unequivocally is using.\n\nAnd hgh?  Hgh?  Shit, let me xpost this to /r/bodybuilding so everyone can have a laugh.\n\n I've been around a LOT of guys on gear.  I have been on gear.  You clearly\ndon't know much about this topic.  Just stop.", 
        ">  I have been on gear. \n\nyeah, we can see that ", 
        "Yeah, it's because all my info was correct.", 
        ">as I've been a very active redditor for six years\n\nDo you put that on your CV?", 
        "You'll have to try harder than that.  This barely cracks the top 1,000 on the stupid list.  I'll give you points for effort though, even if it's ironic coming from  someone on reddit who took time to comment.", 
        "HGH/Steroids.\n\nHoly crap, I'm a pretty avid fan of bodybuilding and I see some pretty stupid posts on /r/bodybuilding regarding steroid usage and who they claim is natty/not. But on /r/mma ? really this is rock bottom.\n\nYou have no idea what the fuck you are talking about. Stop it right now. HGH? Human growth hormone? Do you even know how it works, and what it does? IT would be very EVIDENT if he was using HGH.\n\nSecondly, to pair it up with/steroids like. Oh here's one compound, and then say /steroids to cover the other 99 sounds's so utterly stupid. I'll give you the chance to delete your comment before people start to see what you've written.\n\n**EDIT: Clearly everyone who downvoted me is educated on PED's. 19 year old Sage, who's physique looks like that of an Athlete, that also looks very natural in terms of bodybuilding. Let's accuse him of using growth hormone. Get your head out of your asses.**", 
        "I'm educated on PED's, and he already has signs of HGH use like the exaggerated chin, the beginning stages of acromegaly. There is also nothing natural at all, even in bodybuilding, about someone looking like they're in contest prep dehydration mode 24/7, especially at age 19.\n\nYou're simply a naive nuthugger if you think he's never used anything, esp with the connections his father has. He has used steroids and probably GH as well, that's just reality, deal with it.", 
        "L - O - L\n\nAcromegaly? You're inferring this through his facial structure? Wow, can't believe you're arrogant enough to say that. How can you conclude through his \"chin\" whether he has an overproduction of growth hormone.\n\n\"contest prep dehydration\" LOL, welcome to lean/tanned and sub 10% in decent lighting. Funny, if you think this is contest prep for a bodybuilder.", 
        "Damage control all you want, doesn't change the fact that he's used gear. Thats a fact, and he will slip up and get caught sooner or later. Deal with it.", 
        "Just on the \"acromegaly\" shit, look at pics of him as a kid.  He has the exact same facial structure.", 
        "It's sad you're getting downvotes when you're the only one here who has any idea what the fuck they're talking about.", 
        "I'm sad too, I looked over at my comment karma -10. and it's the post I'm most aggravated about too, like how can someone seriously accuse sage of using steroids? My brother at 19 yrs old, has a very similar of not better bodybuilding physique than sage and I could guarantee if they think sage is on roid's my brother would be INCREDIBLY flattered haha.\n\nI don't know a lot about steroids, but I know enough to call people on their stupid shit. Especially, idiots who are ignorant enough to throw around the words like they know anything. \n\nThanks for your comment.", 
        "I know a LOT about gear, from umm, research...  Yeah, research.\n\nBasically, looking at this guy, it's not impossible that he's using gear.  But to say for sure, when he looks natty, no water retention, no obviously increased vascularity, etc.  It's stupid to say that.  He's not even big, he's just very lean.  For them to say this can't be achieved naturally just tells me all they know about this topic is what they heard from their buddies on world of warcraft.", 
        "You're on steroids", 
        "Everyone's on steroids ", 
        "If you're such an expert, you should know that it's entirely possible  to use HGH +other \"supplements\" without going full retard with them. Used in moderation you get all kinds of benefits, without the telltale giveaways.\n", 
        "As a guy that follows Bodybuilding I can assure you that physique is attainable naturally. ", 
        "Haha, what bullshit. No one can walk around that shredded 24/7 without chemical aids. ", 
        "> follows", 
        "My mistake I don't only follow Bodybuilding I also do Bodybuilding.", 
        "His delts are suspicious. Not to mention his creepy and steroid dealing father also make him more suspect. \n\nEDIT: I doubt he's on anything hardcore or on HGH, though. Probably more orals like anavar ", 
        "There are a lot of androgen receptors in both the traps and shoulders. If he was using his shoulders would be more capped than they are, and his traps looks quite small actually. His shoulders and traps looks symmetrical to rest of his physique, they are usually more dominant in steroid users physiques", 
        "A more mild steroid or test microdosing won't give a capped delt look", 
        "How do you micro dose test? Wouldn't it still come up in PED tests?", 
        "Some types of test only are detectable for like 4-8 hours. So you just take it at times so you won't be tested during that window", 
        "Proportionally the traps and shoulders would grow more than the rest of the physique since there are more androgen receptors. And his physique is symmetrical, there really are noe tell signs that he is using for sure. ", 
        "They're not super capped, but certainly are suspect. http://cdn.newsapi.com.au/image/v1/666d52f3bc99c6cd8b843c971b7c6197?width=700\n\nNot all steroid users get the super capped look", 
        "Not likely at 19 and you don't walk around looking dry 24/7 if you aren't on something.", 
        "Just checked his Insta, https://www.instagram.com/p/BB5bqSPKGsr/?taken-by=supersagenorthcutt&hl=en this level of leanness is a bit suspicious to maintain as a natural. As you will lose you libido being that low bodyfat when natural as it will fuck with your hormone levels. Unless you're on test then you're able to stay at that level of bodyfat without much problems. But I doubt hes on growth. \n\nJust checked some more, hes apparently friends with a famous Bodybuilder https://www.instagram.com/p/BBq_U6SKGoD/?taken-by=supersagenorthcutt&hl=en. \n\nI mean it's possible to attain the physique he has naturally if you follow a bodybuilding regime quite strictly for 4-5 years. But I kind of doubt hes been doing too much Bodybuilding work since hes a fighter... ", 
        "> But I kind of doubt hes been doing too much Bodybuilding work since hes a fighter...\n\nHe actually competed in amateur bodybuilding stuff as a teenager, and his father was a huge (pro-looking) bodybuilder reliably known, as the other guy stated, for dealing both cocaine and anabolic steroids, among who knows what else.", 
        "You know he was tested around 6 times in the past year by USADA right?", 
        "His dad was also a body builder and he has insane genetics obviously but he puts in a ton of work in the gym to be sure", 
        "His Dad is probably supplying his roids then. His dad being a bodybuilder has pretty much confirmed to me that he's roiding. ", 
        "He's on record saying he followed a strict diet and workout plan since he was a kid and that his dad prepared his protein shakes.  Is it possible to still be unknowingly taking something his dad is giving him?  He seems like a naive person ", 
        "Ahhh, plausible deniability, the key to doing shady shit", 
        "Maybe his dad is lying to him and telling him he's diabetic, lol. \n\n'Time for your insulin, son!'", 
        "That's what I mean sage seems like a guy that could happen to based on how he talks and seems super passive to elders", 
        "His dad also sold steroids...", 
        "Everyone is on steroids, I know. However there is such a thing as genetics and some people can walk around with almost no body fat. It is rare. I am just saying, we should give everyone the benefit of doubt.\n\nThat said I do wonder what looking up to all these guys is doing to our perception of body image. It can't be good. Even the natural guys have amazing physiques. ", 
        "> That said I do wonder what looking up to all these guys is doing to our perception of body image. \n\nThe problem with these roid/hgh dudes is that women dont know shit about it and will only be attracted to guys that look like him. It's fucking us up badly.", 
        "You really think women will go \"omggggosh you're on steroids, we are done\"? That's naive and silly, most women especially in America could care less if you're on steroids especially if you make good money and look attractive enough that she can brag to her friends about you.", 
        "I think he's saying that women will only want you if you look like the guys on steroids. ", 
        "Now that actors do it to \"get in shape\" for their next role, the problem is only going to get worse.", 
        "Perfect example is Christian Bale. Look at the movie he did before the Dark Knight, he was anorexic, then a few months later he's bulging with muscle for his role in the Dark Knight.", 
        "His dad used to sell steroids and coke ", 
        "I am really just playing devil's advocate here. Chances are good a guy his age with that much muscle mass was using \"supplements\". I just want to point out it is possible to obtain physique like this naturally. Look at olympic weightlifting, etc. Some of them are probably on the juice too, but it is a sport that self selects genetically talented in that area. \n\nedit: change powerlifting to weightlifting. ", 
        "I am nitpicking, but what they do in the Olympics is Weightlifting, which is a different sport from Powerlifting.", 
        "Fair point. Edited. ", 
        "I'll take 1 of each plz", 
        "You can be shrinkwrap lean or have a ton of muscle, but you can't do both without steroids.", 
        "I have seen a lot of natural body builders look pretty legit. Some natural guys can maintain lower amounts of body fat with no hormonal issues. Most live around 6-9%, a place where you still have legitimate definition, etc. This is not outside of the realm of feasibility. \n\nhttp://nattyornot.com/underestimating-body-fat-levels/ Here is a good breakdown to visualize body fat percentages. Now look at sage. I'd guess 8-10%. He has really good ab definition and genetically gifted an aesthetics, but he is still carrying some BF. Look at arms, shoulders, etc. my 2c. ", 
        "His dad dealt steroids and cocaine previously...", 
        "That right there is the nail in the coffin. Just think about this, his dad is super rich, this kid has been living on a silver platter his whole life, hasn't worked a day in his life and has all the time in the world for training and enjoying life. Now again, his dad is super rich and has connections to the underground PED market where undetectable PEDs are created every few months but the catch is only the rich can afford these new ones or only the rich can pay a chemist to work on making undetected PEDs. \n\nIt is very naive to think with all this background history that Sage Northcutt is natural, in fact he looks better at 19 than Arnold Schwarzenegger looked at 19-20 who was already on the juice, if that doesn't raise suspicions then I don't know what does.", 
        "here we go with this guy", 
        "(Reliable) Source or gtfo", 
        "Source: This pic\n", 
        "I have a hot girlfriend\n\n[Source: This pic](http://thumb1.shutterstock.com/display_pic_with_logo/134167/321711740/stock-photo-young-man-taking-photo-of-her-girlfriend-with-mobile-phone-in-nature-321711740.jpg)", 
        "Your definition of \"hot\" seems a little exaggerated.", 
        "\"stock-photo model hot\"", 
        "I'm a homophobic bigot and even I want to get down on my knees and suck sage off and swallow every last drop", 
        "Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Wow. He isnt like Brad Pitt or something. ", 
        "Milo is that you?", 
        "> I'm a homophobic bigot\n\nYou mean you're a homosexual f.......", 
        "This is quite possibly the gayest thing I've ever heard", 
        "You're not homophobic bro", 
        "Nah son you're just in denial but the good news is it's 2016 and we are cool with gay people now so come on out buddy it'll be okay.", 
        "Geez imagine if u ran into rockhold or joubain. I guess rogans right, homophobs are just fighting it when sooner or later UFC is Gnna be full of twinks sub 170 and bears post 185. Safe to say the grappling exchanges will actually be interesting.  ", 
        "TIL I'm a twink", 
        "*( \u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0)*", 
        "Im pretty sure you're the opposite of a homophobic bigot.", 
        "umm....ya you just might be gay", 
        "What's wrong bro, your abs don't look like that?", 
        "My abs look like that, they're just hiding under all the beer I drink.", 
        "If I shaved my chest and stomach I would look just like that", 
        "Yeah and took a sharpie to my gut", 
        "[Not that there's anything wrong with that](http://i.imgur.com/qhN0JJw.jpg)", 
        "Man, Saku was in better shape than I remember.", 
        "Sage doesn't shave his chest hair, he just asks it politely not to grow.", 
        "If I shaved my chest,  stomach, like 7 layers of skin, and a bunch of subcutaneous fat,  I'd look just... just still not at all like this.", 
        "I've been too ashamed to look at my mid-section or any of my body ever since Sage Northcutt came onto the scene", 
        "You're not on steroids.", 
        "You're not on steroids!", 
        "You're not subscribed to UFC Fight Pass!", 
        "Get subscribed NOW!  Use the code \"Rogan\"  to get 20% off! ", 
        "Any and all supplements, you fucks. ", 
        "Yea man Northcutt here. Just taking my bike out for a ride you know. Then I saw a grass snake like whoa? What are the chances? I didn't want to intimidate the snake so I took my shirt off. Look how great me and grass snake look together. But yea man just out here grinding, ready to fight as soon as possible!", 
        "lol cause taking your shirt off to reveal those demigod abs wont scare the shit out of the SSNNNAKKEKEE", 
        "Yep - Northcut wants to hump himself ", 
        "Give him a break, he doesnt get to have sex so hes gotta do somethin", 
        "Oh my god whats he going to do to that snek?", 
        "I read that as Matt Damon's impression of Matthew mcconaughy. https://youtu.be/8TvQzA47YIs", 
        "This is gold, Jerry!", 
        "TJ lookin' like a flyweight, damn.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Dodson is no joke. Arguably number 2 flyweight in the world ", 
        "Oh for sure, which is why it is cool that he beat someone who went on to be BW champ", 
        "SSSsssSSssage", 
        "I am not saying he is not steroids.  But, he is on steroids. ", 
        "Ayyy i'm not surprised motherfuckers", 
        "Youre on steroids.", 
        "I don't give a fuuuuck", 
        "He is steroids. ", 
        "Steroids are on him.", 
        "I saw the description before the picture and I thought Sage was memeing.", 
        "He should workout more.", 
        "Goddammit, fucking chiseled and tanned, just-post-adulthood Adonis", 
        "I would eat butter off of his abs. ", 
        "You're on the keto diet as well?", 
        "Dude could hold a bunch of pens and pencils and shit with his abs without flexing wtf ", 
        "No sir I do not like it.", 
        "This is my kind of shitpost", 
        "I just can't do it man. Natural humans can't look like that. Even natural body builders whose job it is to look like that don't look like that. This dude is definitely on some secrete Chinese covert onnit steroids from Dr. Joe Rogan himself. ", 
        "I've never seen the \"guilty until proven innocent\" mentality thrown around so often as I do in r/mma\n\nHe's been training his whole life. I don't know anyone that's trained as hard as this kid has from such a young age. Not to mention at 19, his metabolism is probably at its peak. Totally possible for him to be clean but every pic we see of him is probably immediately after a work out and he's flexing hard", 
        "you have to figure given who his dad is, he had access to the best designer PED's on the planet, and his physique is the result of that.", 
        "People are constantly bringing this up as if it's a credible accusation to launch at his son. His father being a health freak could also be why Sage is built like this and not necessarily the steroids.", 
        "Nah, we ain't trying to hear that man. It's the roids. You understand jabroni? ", 
        "Yeah, sage to me seems like the type who has probably never had a fast food hamburger, and his dad probably locks him in a pit, silence of the lambs style if he doesn't follow his diet.", 
        "It's not his father being a \"health freak\" that has people being suspicious of Sage. It's his father being a drug dealer with few morals that has people suspicious of what went into Sage looking the way he does.", 
        "Lol it's just all those Lean Body shakes he's been slamming since he was an infant.  Also, his whole family are supposed to be fitness fanatics, so he was probably getting some whey in his breast milk when he was a baby.  A ripped greek-god like baby.\n\nedit: Found baby pics: http://25.media.tumblr.com/8f33d16cb01c22c4fa12907c0820e8cf/tumblr_n0r6sw2fcI1t11axlo1_400.jpg", 
        "That's ONNIT, O-N-N-I-T use the code word JOE ROGAN for 0.5% off.", 
        "Sage looks so much better without his spiked hairstyle", 
        "Man I actually feel like he might be too low body fat.  ", 
        "Definitely doesn't have the physique of an endurance athlete which is what MMA really is. Dude looks like he trains like a bodybuilder. Nice arms are great and all but just a quick glance at his oversized biceps gives you a good picture. ", 
        "How can you say that lol? He actually indeed at one point did do \"physique competitions\" but that was a result of his bodybuilding past. He has also been deeply rooted in Karate and other MMA in his life. \n\nI don't think you can interpret through his physique what his endurance or cardio might be like. There are dozens of examples of elite sprinters/marathon/triathlon athletes that have incredible physiques like Sage's, it's down to insertions/muscle bellies and bone structure. Hence Sage was probably encouraged to do so.\n\nSage happens to have the best of both worlds, like a lot of athletes.  Other athletes could also pass for \"bodybuilders\".  ", 
        "Sprint is not endurance.   Show me a top marathon runner with that physique ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No shit, the guy I was responding to said there are marathon runners with physique like sage", 
        "All he did was comment on his appearance. He didn't make any assumptions about his endurance or cardio. From his physique Sage does look like he trains for aesthetics.", 
        ">says he doesnt have a cardio/mma physique.  \n>>Says he trains like a bodybuilder  \n>>>defends his point of \"bodybuilder\" like training by looking at his biceps  \n\nam I over-analyzing? or am I correct in what he's trying to imply lol...? sage has just great muscle bellies, and is relatively low body fat. Sub 10%.", 
        "> He has also been deeply rooted in ~~Karate and other MMA~~ roids in his life. \n\n", 
        "Are you his dad?", 
        "Damn, with the amount of knowledge I have on Sage, I may as well be.", 
        "Unnecessary muscle needs to be fuelled by oxygen too. If he's got big biceps he's got to get oxygen to those. \n\nHe'll get gassed easier than smaller opponents. ", 
        "I don't see what you're arguing. There's pros/cons to both, but to suggest that even 10lbs more of muscle will negate his cardio is seriously overestimating.\n\nEven if it were to fatigue him \"slightly faster\" he is a professional MMA athlete who looks like he's always training incredibly hard to compensate for the added muscle. \n\nON TOP OF THAT, MMA is a combat sport. More muscle would also correlate with strength and power. Which can be of use in grappling on the mat and even in the clinch. \n\nAgain, like I said. I have no idea what your point is, but there's pros/cons to both. His physique if anything is a better representation of his dietary habits and training, not a negative lol... ", 
        "More muscles doesn't necessarily mean more power.  Look at pudz ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He is powerful at strong man lifts, he's not a powerful puncher knocking out anyone he touches", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I disagree he's where he is cuz freak show draw.  He has looked awful in every match", 
        "I'll agree with you that there are dozens of elite sprinters who look like sage but there's not one elite marathon runner or triathlete who looks remotely like him.  Most elite long distance runners/triathletes are 140 or below.  Sprinters are 180 plus and hit the weights as much as they run and when they do run its for very short durations. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Expect they both take extreme amounts of endurance.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "But they both take extreme amounts of endurance.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I acknowledge that they are different. But they are both still dependent on lots of cardio and the guys with bigger muscles are going to gas faster in both sports.", 
        "Sage is probably the type of guy to use any excuse to take his shirt off. ", 
        "now see there is a body that won't quit. you pop those pants off i bet you find a bird that won't quit. now 2008 D_Rowe was prime a beefcake but 2016 D_Rowe has quit and your bird quit, so you're not legit.", 
        "No no, I think you'll find a sweaty hog that just won't quit ", 
        "Yup, he could've joined team alpha male but was above the height limit", 
        "5'8\" and under", 
        "When you don't drink or eat BBQ or ice cream or whatever it's the only bit of little joy you get", 
        "Ya, the ripped as fuck type", 
        "They're all on steroids.", 
        "Sage isn't trying too hard to hide it, like jesus fuck look at him", 
        "Sage rides his dirt bike shirtless wearing cargo shorts.", 
        "Sage's shirtless picture is the equivalent to a slut on instagram taking a picture of her tits hanging out and saying \"look at my new necklace\"", 
        "being a slut isn't impressive.\n\nSage makes grown men question their sexuality.", 
        "No.... you're just gay.", 
        "Don't down vote the truth. To be a hot slut you just gotta be not fat. To be sage you need a lifetime of diet and exercise plus designer steroids.", 
        "So....? You gay too.", 
        "No doubt", 
        "Thats a nice snek", 
        "I seriously question my sexuality when i see a topless photo of Sage", 
        "How is this guy not on steroids?", 
        "He is, he's just using in such a way that is hard to detect, i.e. the more expensive designer PED's and HGH cycled carefully to elude USADA.", 
        "Goat's milk and horse meat", 
        "He's getting GOATs piss from Fedor. Fresh off the farm.", 
        "Better than straight from the tap?", 
        "[Eh, maybe](http://imgur.com/0cpKhPf)", 
        "You're on steroids.", 
        "Yep. Still funny.", 
        "Is that EA UFC picture for real?\nhttps://pbs.twimg.com/media/CddH5iMUsAE9aa6.jpg  \n\nThought that was a Kim Winslow cameo.", 
        "hahah whattt!", 
        "Creepy as fuck", 
        "What...? I think it captures his creepiness very well", 
        "Why does he look like [Joe Riggs](http://prommanow.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/joe-riggs-prommanow.png)?", 
        "Humble Christian show-off.", 
        "That's a garter snake, not TJ Dillashaw.", 
        "\"oh dang, I got a stain on my shirt, better take it off\"", 
        "Male version of thirst traps", 
        "At first I thought he was trolling TJ. Heel Sage would be amazing.", 
        "I know he's a hardcore Christian, but he should go into porn. ", 
        "hahah best analogy of the year, made my day haha!", 
        "It makes me laugh that there are still people stupid enough to think you can look like this naturally with only teen hormones and a good ol fashioned work ethic. Eat your vitamins and say your prayers!!!", 
        "It helps when those people have never set foot in a gym in their lives. Too many teen instagram folks like Jeff Seid and Lazar Angalov claim they are natty, then people buy that shit up.", 
        "Yeh you right ", 
        "such a shame TJ got that nickname. It's really sad McGregor said that about TJ and ruined his rep. I hope TJ comes back and becomes champ again because he actually finishes fights unlike Cruz. I think a couple of Cruz fights and people will realize how much better they liked TJ. It's wrong what he did with Faber and his gym, but I don't know the truth about what happened or why so I won't judge.", 
        "He is for sure one of the more entertaining fighters to watch, it's not often you see a guy with such power at bantamweight let alone one with such creative footwork and offensive wrestling", 
        "> It's really sad McGregor said that about TJ and ruined his rep\n\nYeah, nothing he could have done to avoid the ssssssssssssssnake reputation. Leaving Alpha male and running off with ludwig to colorado probably didnt help though", 
        "TJ has had a lot of nicknames over the years, most notably \"Snake-in-the-Grass\" and \"BJ Dildosaw\". ", 
        "TJ should pack on some pounds and step up, call him out and wreck his shit.", 
        "Cruz never simulates anyone's death.", 
        "This isn't WWE, fans aren't choosing champs lol. If Cruz is more talented, what can you do. And I like Cruz' style, he made an extraordinary guy look ordinary. I don't think you realize how amazing it is to do that", 
        "you may have an upvote", 
        "What you did there.. I see it.", 
        "Hair-down Sage for GOAT", 
        "Took me way too long too get the reference ", 
        "goddammit I clicked on this thinking it was going to be a clip of Sage training with TJ or something.", 
        "nice cargos sage", 
        "All natty", 
        "[Non shit desktop link](https://twitter.com/sagenorthcutt/status/709199451026395136)", 
        "Sage move to Elevation gym confirmed.\n", 
        "I tried to look it up and wash my clothes down by a river on those abs.", 
        "The snake had step throat.", 
        "Alot of joke comments here which is fine  but can we have a serious discussion about the probability that Sage is on roids? Or is it obvious and I am just a snake peasant ", 
        "He doesn't look human, he's cycling that elite, brewed in Iran, tested on monkeys, home chemistry set.\n\nI'm not saying he's on steroids but apparently he named his pharmacist and the chemistry building in his university in his will. ", 
        "There's so much steroid talk around this guy. He's not really that big. He is super shredded, but it does seem like maybe he hit the genetic lotto in terms of his muscle placement. ", 
        "theres no way this kids natty", 
        "Totally understand. If I looked like that, I would not own a shirt either. ", 
        "Shouldn't have clicked this at work... now everyone is looking at me weird", 
        "Just mirin that physique brah", 
        "Ha funny. he should have 2 more for Jobi and Lance Palmer, and whoever's next to leave at AF.\ndude should stop with the pics/shirt off and probably be at the gym. That hype train got derails quickly.", 
        "he is snek", 
        "The fact that I'm a day older than this guy makes me question my genetics and life choices.", 
        "If yall will excuse me I need to go do some crunches", 
        "His bellybutton is really high up.", 
        "full natty brah!", 
        "am i the only one who noticed that his nipples are cock eyed?", 
        "'you're all on steroids'", 
        "I used to live in Texas, this kid is like a Texas Celebrity, getting sponsored by large local businesses etc...   Pappas restaurants, Toyota of Irving.\n\nHe seems like a nice kid, I have no hate for him.\n", 
        "HAHA! Was looking for TJ 10 sec before i got it :P", 
        "This guy is definitely not natural...Anavar and lowish test dose, anyone else have any guesses?", 
        "Honestly who the fuck looks at this guy and thinks he's on steroids, he looks 100% natty to me. ", 
        "shitpost", 
        "This guy ever wear a shirt?", 
        "I think he's natural ya know. Or hadn't done any steroids in a long time. He doesn't have that round shoulder and trap thing that all steroid users have", 
        "what does that have to do with steroids ?  Steroids does not make you grow muscles .  lmao \n\nIt just allows  you to work harder , increase testosterone and increase speed of recovery. Allowing you to gain muscle easier. but you can have a bear gut like those world strongest men and be on steroids. \n\nBut, he looks like the perfect example of being clenbeutoral looks like. ", 
        "Lol at people downvoting you.\n\nIf you don't eat at a surplus, steroids won't make you gain much muscle. A lot also depends on the compound you use. Anavar is a lot different than dbol is a lot different than tren.", 
        ">Steroids does not make you grow muscles\n\nThey actually do, you grow muscles even without working out.\n\nhttp://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJM199607043350101", 
        "read it dude , it says less than .05 percent total muscle mass inccrease thats almost nothing.\n\nOnly growth happened with strength training and diet ", 
        "What does the round shoulder trap thing look like? I tried to look it up and couldn't find anything.", 
        "Think he means \"3D delts\"", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/CBFgWHu.gifv", 
        "I dont think Mcgregor tapped that fast. ", 
        "What is the joke?  Love the gif, but do not understand the relevance? ", 
        "I sense you're trying to tell us something.", 
        "As much as I love this gif, I don't get the joke..", 
        "Tj dillashaw should be at the gym trainning, not hanging out with sage.", 
        "I want to suds him up and wash my clothes down by a river on those abs.", 
        "I wanna run his abs. They're amazing.", 
        "Can't wait to see him on TV trying to explain why they found designer steroids in his blood...", 
        "His body designs the steroids.", 
        "No it doesn't.\n\nIf you know anything about bodybuilding + fitness, you will know his physique is not possible without steroids.\n\nIt is not possible to have that muscle mass + low fat + exceptional cardio. No one has ever managed to do it before. How is he the first?\n\nHe will eventually get caught. No doubt he'll be crying on TV claiming he was forced / it was his cough medicine.", 
        "Maybe he is the first?", 
        "I was just making a (bad?) joke. His drug tests will tell us soon enough if he is doing anything. ", 
        "I would let Sage nestle his balls in my mouth.", 
        "...is anyone else getting a gay vibe? \n\n", 
        "From you? Yeah a bit, why?", 
        "I didn't mean it as an insult, maybe you're just homophobic?\n\nJust considering his personal family background and his previous bodybuilding stint... I dunno... I've known a lot of gay people here in SF who grew up in relatively conservative households and they tended to express themselves in certain ways... Again. Not insulting him not trying to be mean but seriously I'm the only one who kinda gets that vibe?", 
        "Why would asking if someone is giving off a gay vibe ever be an insult? Also i'm certainly not homophobic, I couldn't care less if the kid was gay or not. I was just joking around with you since it doesn't it even need to be brought up. It think most of the people around here care about what he does in the octagon not who he does outside of it.", 
        "It's funny how some redditors seem to get excited by Sage's physique as if it somehow gave him an edge as a fighter. ", 
        "He's an animal in the octagon. That weird preppy, puppy type attitude of smiles and positive vibes just disappears as soon as he steps into the octagon. \n\n\nSay what you want, the kid can fight. He's faster and stronger than the average UFC fighter and he has a background in MMA. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Look at the best fighters of all time in MMA. Who had a body like that, with close to zero fat? That's not a fighter's body. ", 
        "Apart from that one guy, you know, the welterweight. Georges something ", 
        "Sure, let's all pretend GSP looks anything like Sage.", 
        "What does this picture have to do with TJ?", 
        "Conor told Faber that TJ was a snake in the grass.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aacuvDDg8A8", 
        "All natural. Like my dad thought me!!!   ;)", 
        "Sage is gonna end up being one of those who, when he has 70, has old man skin on young man muslces and still be a baby face.\n\n", 
        "If this doesn't make you hyped for his return, nothing will. ", 
        "That same dialogue was used in an Anderson Silva highlight. It is fitting that it is now applied to Jones.\n\nI believe Jon Jones is the greatest fighter of this generation.", 
        "As someone who watches lots of lion documentaries, I found the idea of Hyenas watching a male lion play with his cub and think, hey!, maybe I too can kick his ass! A bit stupid. All animals already know not to fuck with a male lion. Also male lions sometimes smack their cubs if they get too annoying, I remember one male lion breaking his cubs spine with a smack because it annoyed him.", 
        "Reminds me of my dad. ", 
        "Goddamn, I am so ready for JJ to return.", 
        "Chuck, you can give him that look all you want but he's going to end up finger banging your daughter in the back of that car by the end of the night. ", 
        "For real chuckle u wanna smell my finger? That's right that smells like shit I came in the back door buddy! Fuck u chuck I slap the fucming taste out yo mouth ", 
        "Reddit has no chill.", 
        "Rekt. ", 
        "Worth it. (If I was still 16 and a virgin).\n\nRegardless, taking a beating from Chuck would be worth the lawsuit. Dolla dolla bill$ y'all.", 
        "He probably hut that coochie harder that Rashad hit him in their fight.", 
        "Not sure how much room there will be in there to do that, his balls will take up most of the free space", 
        "holy shit I hope Chuck comes to Reddit and see's this comment XD", 
        "I hope he does as well, but I also do hope he knows I'm joking and I enjoy having all my teeth ;)", 
        "He does that, and Chuck will give him a good finger banging as well I imagine.", 
        "He does have a good looking daughter saw her while hiking in malibu.", 
        "She looks about 12", 
        "12 year old in huge heels with her 12 year old date taller than chuck? Yea makes sense.", 
        "Well she definitely ain't 18", 
        "Source?", 
        "Just looked it up she is in fact exactly 18 years go get your eyes checked.", 
        "link?", 
        "Don't have a link exactly I think it was is in chucks wiki her name is trista liddell he has 2 daughters 1 is 5 years the other is 18.", 
        "Nope not in his wiki", 
        "[Link](http://i.imgur.com/hgXLjzr.jpg)", 
        "with her hair back she can be a 10 (\u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0)", 
        "Look at the kids face. That kid and his shmuck smile knows exactly what he is doing.  ", 
        "The looks on their faces tell me they've already rounded that base. ", 
        "Unless she's the frigid. He is the iceman, after all...", 
        "I hope he sees this, his reaction would be priceless.", 
        "You mean he would mumble something inaudibly and then forget where he is?", 
        "*unsubscribes*             \n*runs and hides under copious blankets* ", 
        "Hey dork, no playing touch butt in the limo with my daughter. I don't want no surprises... motherfucker", 
        "Unfortunately I don't think Chuck would pronounce those words in the way you typed them. ", 
        "Hahy d\u00fcrk, yhno playink tahtch boot een tzee leemoh vit my tdaughtor. Ihjhh dunt vant yhno zoorphrizhez\u2026 moot her fahkoor", 
        "'Hm nice, he gave me permission to moot her farkoor ( \u0361\u00b0 \u035c\u0296 \u0361\u00b0)'", 
        "SIR YES SIR", 
        "That's why the kid looks all weirded out, Chuck just got done telling him he was on finger sniffing patrol.", 
        "Better have hand sanitizer in that right breast pocket. ", 
        "Boys, let's be real: At that age, who of us would have actually been rational enough to be *too scared* to be \"the one that fingerbanged Chuck Liddell's daughter\"? \n\nNow? Scared af. As a teenage boy? I'm sneaking out, stealing mom's car keys, *and* meeting up without a driver's permit. Sneaking in her window, hiding in the closet, *and* throwing the condom in the tree in his front lawn.", 
        "Not the first time, but after he threatens you  the harmones will die down.\n\n\nFear of life>Libido", 
        "*Found the beta male*", 
        "Better than being the dead male", 
        "Let's be real, at that age the question is how long will it take before you try to fingerbang Chuck himself?\n\nThe answer is when he wants you to.  Chuck Liddell answers to fingerbangs on his own goddamn time.", 
        "[B-but...](http://imgur.com/v5XMOXB)", 
        "Goddammit you nailed that summary.", 
        "I didn't know what fear was is sex was on the line. My prom date's dad was busy cleaning his shotgun when I picked her up and it didn't occur to me until I was balls deep in his daughter that he was trying to be threatening. ", 
        "Ahhhh. High school. Good times.", 
        "Boners trump fear, it is known.", 
        "Boners beets Battlestar Galactica ", 
        "Why does everything have to be about trump?", 
        "It is known", 
        "Boners turn fear receptors off entirely. ", 
        "Gotta mate, baby. ", 
        "\"Bones, Trump,  Fear\"\n\nSounds like the Motto of the next part of Trumps campaign. ", 
        "It is known.", 
        "Did you just say that Trump has a fearful boner and he knows it?", 
        "But does Trump fear boners? \n", 
        "That's how I killed my first bear. ", 
        "Oh sweet summer boners.", 
        "He's got a fear boner already", 
        "Well, well, well it seems the U.S elections find their way into every sub.", 
        "US *erection*\n\nI'm so sorry.", 
        "Bernie Sanders is currently ranting and raving that Chuck Liddell can afford a limo while Chris Leben still has to ride his bike to his shift at Arby's.", 
        "Trump Boner, make erections great again! ", 
        "Fear Trump's boner", 
        "It's not that big, though.", 
        "You know what you call Trumps boner?\n\nA Trumpet ;)", 
        "And watch out for those tiny hands too", 
        "As is tradition", 
        "Fear boner", 
        "Thank the maker for that or humans would not have survived as a species.", 
        "It is known ", 
        "It is decided.", 
        "It is known", 
        "praise be!", 
        "It is known", 
        "It is known.", 
        "Is it known", 
        "It is decided", 
        "WE DID IT!", 
        "For the boners are hard, and full of blood.", 
        "or soft and full of disappointment.", 
        "some boners are created by fear. *GATTACA!*", 
        "And some Trumps are created by boners.", 
        "Fearection", 
        "Fearection", 
        "THE THOUGHT OF ME DYING GIVES YOU AN ERECTION?!", 
        "fearection", 
        "Every time I puke , I shit . ", 
        "fearection", 
        "MURDER BONER! ", 
        "Im scareoused", 
        "Oooh! Do Petes Little Tiny Erec-dick", 
        "Cant satisfy a thing with it, petes little erec-dick", 
        "Seriously one of the funniest moments in The League.  I was laughing forever the first time I saw it.", 
        "best song ever.", 
        "Pete's little tiny erect dick.\n\nNo one knew what to do with it.\n\nMeeghan left 'cause she couldn't find it.", 
        "Couldnt find ittttt", 
        "Pete's little tiny erect dick.\n\nIt's quarter tall and a penny thick.\n\nIf it was a blow pop you'd only get one lick.\n\nLooks a lot like a pink q-tip.", 
        "Pink q-tippppppp ", 
        "I'm not sure you understand how this works Rafi", 
        "Rafi, have you even seen that movie? ", 
        "If he had, he wouldnt be yelling that.", 
        "Excuse me Mr. Liddell, can you please give us some of that special white powder so I can really show your daughter a good time tonight?", 
        "dude goody powder can over time cause damage to your stomach lining", 
        "I thought cocaine was a boner killer.", 
        "My roommate tried coke once, he said he was able to get it up that night, but he couldn't cum.", 
        "Practice makes perfect.", 
        "[Cool story, bro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2U34xsSZ5PA)", 
        "Coke or whiskey. The ultimate PEDs. \n\nBut chick's get fucking furious when you don't cum. ", 
        "That's Adderall my dear friend. Cocaine is just glorious, glorious clarity and vision. Just went on a weekend binger and may have developed a problem. ", 
        "Only if you are super fat or have like never worked out a single day in your life. It's from Vasoconstriction ", 
        "for me it is", 
        "My old foreman told me he used to sprinkle a little on his dick before banging girls. Said they seemed to really enjoy it. ", 
        "I've heard finger bang them with it.", 
        "Wouldn't it just make them numb? ", 
        "It's possible.  It was rumoured that he had a log for a dick so it may have been necessary.  ", 
        "Ahh good ol' Silo Pete", 
        "Yeah but take a Viagra as well and you'll be fine. ", 
        "That does not sound healthy. Are you a doctor?", 
        "\u0ca0_\u0ca0 \n\nAre you?", 
        "No, but he stayed in a Holiday Inn Express last night.", 
        "He's not wrong, I read recently that the vasodilation caused by the Viagra works to lower blood pressure and is actually beneficial in this combination.", 
        "Nah, just a Chuck Liddell fan. ", 
        "Works for me.", 
        "I mean I've got the first hand experience, what book has taken cocaine and Viagra at the same time?    \nI'll tell ya, no book. ", 
        "He's got that Ph. D", 
        "No, it's an orgasm killer. You'll be rock hard and fucking for hours, but no crescendo. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "ts, you guys are ridicolous and no nothing about persistance", 
        "Doesn't sound all that bad to me.", 
        "Too much cocaine maybe mixed with alcohol.\n\nListen to Jim Jeffries bit about his coke wank to get an idea.", 
        "Fuck that, listen to his bit about trying to fuck 2 chicks while coked out", 
        "That is the same bit", 
        "Do coke and drink alcohol all you want. Don't mix the two at the same time.  Kills your liver.  \n  \nedit: [I was just trying to give some helpful advice.](https://media.giphy.com/media/nI2oaCFEt08Ew/giphy.gif)", 
        "Where was this advice a year ago? RIP in piece my liver... ;-;", 
        "I would say that is why my liver is killing me.... But I know southpaw fighters give good livers shots so that must mean it is on the right side... thanks MMA! Apparently it's just my left kidney.", 
        "kills your liver yeah, but the 2 drugs make a new 3rd drug...Cocaethylene is the byproduct of concurrent consumption of alcohol and cocaine as metabolized by the liver. Largely considered a recreational drug in and of itself; with stimulant, euphoriant, anorectic, sympathomimetic, and local anesthetic properties. Don't do drugs kids.", 
        "Yea, it's not the mix that's killing your liver. ", 
        ">Do coke and drink alcohol all you want. Don't mix the two at the same time. Kills your ~~liver~~ heart.\n\nAlcohol alone kills your liver.  Coke + alcohol creates cocaethylene.  While this chemical is created in the liver, and is certainly not good for it, it has the added side effect of being very cardiotoxic.  That is why the mixture of coke and alcohol so often ends in sudden death.", 
        "Everyone still does it though. It's not like it instantly kills you.", 
        "Cocaethylene is something like 20x more likely to result in sudden death than cocaine alone.  So yeah, it kinda does.", 
        "holy shit, I must be dead.", 
        "Redditing from beeeeyyyyyooond the grrrrave", 
        "I am pretty spooky. ", 
        "Tips for the health conscious coke head.", 
        "Which sucks because who the hell decides to do coke sober? ", 
        "Joey Diaz", 
        "All day err day.\n\nYadadadi-diga-majig", 
        "Lots of people that were alive in the 80's", 
        "Sherlock Holmes, Sigmund Freud, people back in the day did a lot of drugs", 
        "Sherlock Holmes wasn't a real person.\n\nlol downvoting me doesn't make Sherlock Holmes a real person.", 
        "I like doing coke and then drinking or then not drinking, I just like doing coke.", 
        "Could have sworn Sherlock chased the dragon", 
        "Sigmund Freud actually gave it out to all his family members at christmas regulary, which resulted in a bunch of Freudian Drips.", 
        "[Huh.  I *guess* that explains this...NSFW](https://ucsaboomerang.files.wordpress.com/2012/04/portrait-with-whippet.jpg)", 
        "sigh *upvote*", 
        "Fair enough. From my experience however the purchase of alcohol usually precedes the coke dealer. Also was Sherlock Holmes even a real dude? I thought Arthur Conan Doyle made him up. ", 
        "He was a made up dude but he could represent how commonly accepted it was to smoke cocaine at the time.  I think it's funny how accepted drugs were around 100 years ago, people partied hard.", 
        "I'm just now reading the original Sherlock stories, and Watson is taken a bit aback by how Sherlock uses cocaine. Watson's view as a medical professional was that it was pretty unhealthy. But he just let Sherlock do his thing. \n\nIt felt like how we view cigarettes. It's unhealthy, you shouldn't do it, but whatever. It seemed like there was at least a little social stigma involved, though.", 
        "Agreed. The more I read about the late 1800's to the early 1900's the crazier it seems to be. Companies were once legally required to supply booze for their workers and they even used to use morphine to treat coke addiction. If you dig this stuff you should check out The Dollop it's a great podcast on the ridiculous side of history. ", 
        "You could send packages of heroin and cocaine to your loved ones in WW1. It was meant for dealing with pain and getting relief, but was mostly used to stay awake.", 
        "Checked out The Dollop. Purity Ball was hilarious! ", 
        "Sherlock Holmes used to take week long cocaine trips in his books. \"Well, I'm off to do Cocaine for a week, tah tah!\".", 
        "That look in his eyes Chuck", 
        "We have never seen a more fired up Chuck Liddell Mike.\n\nHe certainly has that look in his eyes that we haven't seen in a LOOOOOONG time Mike.", 
        "Yeah, that kid looks stoned to the bone. No fucks given. ", 
        "Don't worry, I hear he's an ice man ", 
        "Chuck is steadfast with that Mohawk. \ud83d\udc22", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "male pattern *badass*", 
        "I don't think you know the pattern it takes. Lucky you. ", 
        "What's the turtle about? ", 
        "The tortoise is steadfast in all of its endeavors, as is Chuck with his Mohawk. ", 
        "It's his thing. Like Hogan's moustache. He'll never shave it off", 
        "> It's his thing. Like Hogan's moustache. He'll never shave it off\n\n-Kenflo", 
        "Chuck won't have a Mohawk at 60. Mark my words!", 
        "Do they do mohawk wigs?", 
        "[Hogan getting his 'stache shaved off in the ring.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3cI3mKOPmts)", 
        "To think he settled the score in a monster truck battle that ended with The Giant falling off a skyscraper to his death... only to turn up later in the night without a scratch on him.", 
        "Holy shit, you were serious: http://www.dailymotion.com/video/xlzn6w_sumo-monster-truck-competition-hulk-hogan-vs-the-big-show_sport", 
        "WCW Russoing it before Russoing it was a thing.", 
        "The fact that Russoing it wasn't really a concept until he joined WCW should probably tell you something. ", 
        "Oh man. That was awesome.", 
        "Oh, man, if you want a laugh watch the OSW review of Halloween Havoc. It's batshit insane.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YtrNDr9e2K4\n\nJust watch those opening minutes for some classic Hogan acting.", 
        "Is that the same guy that did the MMA 9 second knockout review? That was absolutely fantastic. ", 
        "> **Ahhhhhhh!**  It's not hot!", 
        "It's his thing. Like Hogan's ~~moustache~~ bandanna. He'll never shave it off\n", 
        "He'll do [this](http://x17video.com/lowres/cliddell120209.jpg), though", 
        "Looks a little like Forest Griffin there.", 
        "looking handsome, Mr Lidell", 
        "He is undercover as Herc from The Wire ", 
        "[Merle, is that you?](https://encrypted-tbn2.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTptKR5F48mD1oL_LnnPaH5O3ezCg0o5YUIkPMn9yYECoUhTJsNbe1khM5m)", 
        "Nsfw tag needed!", 
        "Wow. There is a lot of resemblance.", 
        "He looks naked.", 
        "Who's the other guy in the pic?", 
        "Tiki in a whig?", 
        "Paul Rudd and Ryan Reynolds oddly tall love child.", 
        "That's [Dave Osokow](https://www.instagram.com/daveophilly/). He is a dear friend, not only to us but to many, including Chuck. He's the nerdiest, and yet same time coolest gent you will ever meet. A complete anomaly of a human being. In fact, Dave introduced us to Chuck about a year ago and we got to [give him our invention](http://imgur.com/tjZb84T) Drop Stop. \n\nDave is amongst the most honest, genuine, and trustworthy folks we've ever had the pleasure to meet. He's an entrepreneur and [host personality](http://m.campussports.net/video/exclusive-interview-with-king-bach/). Our nickname for him is Gwai, short for Gwaihir, Lord of the Eagles. He'll bend over backwards to do a friend a favor, so we call him The Lord of the Favors. The ringtone when he calls is the song that plays when Gandalf touches the butterfly to summon Gwaihir.  \n\nMet him in 1999 when his then girlfriend, Playboy Playmate twin Mandy Bentley, was the co star of a short film I starred in called [Livin' With Meshuganah Shiksa](http://youtu.be/dwvVddL5JUY). \n\nDuring the dream sequence - [14:48 mark](https://youtu.be/dwvVddL5JUY?t=14m48s), - as she was pouring hot wax on my chest - you can't see as she's pouring but her elbow was perched right on my cock. I was hard as a rock the entire time and I knew she could feel it. And Dave Osokow, her boyfriend, was eyeballing me from right behind the camera. So before things could get weird, I announced to the entire room I was hard as a rock, couldn't help it, and apologized to Mandy and Dave. We became close friends shortly thereafter. Mandy was never heard from again. Jk. ", 
        "My girlfriend and I saw you on Shark Tank the day that your episode premiered. Your product is quite hard to find in Toronto Canada but I've been looking out for it for a while. Congratulations on all your success \ud83d\ude0a\n", 
        "Hey man thanks so much :-) We do ship to Canada but they force us to charge fees. If you PM us we can work with you on the price to try and bring it to something reasonable. Also we'll be available directly in Canada soon so stay tuned. ", 
        "I've always wondered why US companies don't hire a firm in CA to ship. Like near the border, have it shipped to a US address in bulk or drive it across yourself and have the other company mail it. \n\nI'm gonna assume probably because of trade violations? ", 
        "Something something customs laws.", 
        "Hi Dave", 
        "Well that's one he'll of a story", 
        "Ah... Um....\n\nThis seems so implausible, I want to believe it's real", 
        "...What...", 
        "Expected \"tree fiddy\"", 
        "https://www.instagram.com/daveophilly/", 
        "what the hell does this guy do to meet all those people...crack dealer?", 
        "Damn...Dave's circle of friends does not intersect with my circle of friends at any point.", 
        "Wow, for a guy with so many connections it's odd to see that he doesn't have a wiki page. ", 
        "Chuck's boyfriend maybe?\n\nExcuse me, \"~~life~~ training partner\".\n\nEdit: since this is combat sports.", 
        "http://gay-or-straight.com/Chuck%20Liddell ", 
        "Not that there's anything wrong with that", 
        "It's his SO \n\nUgh... I fucking hate that term. ", 
        "so what? ", 
        "Wait, Chuck's gay?", 
        "He has kids", 
        "Well he has a kid so.... maybe?", 
        "Uhh, no. Chuck is married to a woman named Heidi.", 
        "You know, maybe instead of googling \"Is Chuck Liddel Gay?\" I should have went for [\"Is Chuck Liddel Married?](https://www.google.ca/search?safe=off&q=is+chuck+liddell+married?&spell=1&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjwge_C3MDLAhXkg4MKHURFC30QvwUIGSgA&biw=1920&bih=993)\" :P", 
        "Could have just asked me. I worked for him.", 
        "How would I possibly have known that...", 
        "Of course you wouldn't. It was tongue in cheek. ;)", 
        "Hey, man, in combat sports they're called \"training partners\". ", 
        "Touch butt", 
        "That was my initial thought. ", 
        "Dick butt", 
        "No ponytail, no park.. Is different.. ", 
        "my money's on Brave Kid by KO. Sorry Chuck.", 
        "He's gonna KO that pussy", 
        "Yea he's had a bit of a glass jaw since the rampage fight. I'll take the young buck as well.", 
        "KO as in Knickers Off, right?", 
        "Knuckle Orgasm", 
        "\"Brave Kid vs. Some Guy Named Robert is without a doubt one of the most eagerly anticipated bouts in the history of combat sports.\"", 
        "by kock out?", 
        "Horny strength is one hell of a killer. His testosterone levels are probably higher than Vitor Belfort's when he fought Luke Rockhold ", 
        "If he has his way he's going to a long decision with Chuck's daughter tho. ", 
        "no finish??", 
        "Maybe he'll Mighty Mouse it and finish at the last possible second. ", 
        "I think a 13 second McGregor/Aldo type explosive finish is more likely.", 
        "Then Goldie bursts in through the door shouting 'AND ITS ALL OVER!'", 
        "Goldie: \"IT'S ALL OVER!!! YOUNG TEENAGE BOY WITH THE SUBMISSION!\"\n\nRogan: \"That was a knockout Mike\".", 
        "That is the first time she's been taken to the mat, Joe.", 
        "\"No Mike, it really isn't\"\n", 
        "\"He's the Michael Jordan of grappling\"", 
        "That \"kid\" is pretty huge ", 
        "He only looks big because the angle is bad", 
        "I spend way too much time on here to recognise this dank meme. great thread that was lol", 
        "We should wait for him to post proof that he's not small, with photos dating back 4 years to track his progress.", 
        "Goddamnit I got that reference, I really should check other subreddits.", 
        "Chuck isn't a manlet, I swear.", 
        "Hope this meme stays for a long time.", 
        "Dey don't meme like I meme", 
        "Can someone fill me in? /r/outoftheloop", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/47f0ro/i_talked_to_gsp_in_person_while_he_was_showering/", 
        "And GSP is huge", 
        "GSP? I thought he said he was selling GHB. Now I'm confused.", 
        "How many weight classes did he jump up for that picture? ", 
        "And that kid banged her so hard it knocked out Chuck.", 
        "Nowadays he wouldnt have to bang her that hard for that to happen.", 
        "lol brain trauma", 
        "/R/mmaww", 
        "r/mmaww\n\nFtfy for mobile", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What? My link works fine, you haven't needed the the first slash for like a year now", 
        "wow sub for 2+ years!", 
        "Least it wasnt Jon Jones.", 
        "Yea never would've made it to the dance if he was the driver. ", 
        "Chuck is only good at his stand-up game. He sprawls and brawls that's what he teaches his daughter. Now her prom date is gonna show her a good old fashioned ground and pound. Take her down, get into her guard, move into full mount, and eventually take her back. Get both hooks in and it's all over  in 15 seconds", 
        "Chuck Liddell competed D1 Wrestling in college. Still daughter getting taken to Pound Town ", 
        "And the brave kid about to call D1 and sink his battleship into dat booty. Should just take pictures of him banging her, share it to Chuck's Instagram and be like #NBDYOLOSWAG YOUR MOVE GRAMPS", 
        "Who is that on the right? And why is chuck holding a breathalyzer?", 
        "It's an IPhone with a wrist lanyard. ", 
        "That's his daughter.", 
        ">And why is chuck holding a breathalyzer?\n\nSo glad someone clarified that.  I thought he was holding a taser... But then I was like \"Chuck don't need no taser\"", 
        "She looks 40", 
        "She was born in 2001.  ", 
        "ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME. ", 
        "Feels weird linking her insta now that I know, but yea.  \n\nChuck tagged her in his post\n\nhttps://www.instagram.com/p/BC55aPCDiWz/", 
        "Upon further investigation, she does look 15. In that picture though, she looks like a grown ass woman. ", 
        "That won't hold up in court.", 
        "Chuck has the K.O's but the kid probably has the K.Y.", 
        "He's in high school he probably brought a condom but there's no lube.", 
        "When my daughter is old enough I will be the driver of the car, the DJ at the dance and there will be GPS trackers on.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "GSP tracker is a much better product", 
        "She'll get fucked *just before* you think she's \"old enough.\"", 
        "Not with that attitude.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Listen here tough guy, put your real name and address and those two words together again and I will show you how they do not go hand and hand.", 
        "Lol, \"[deleted]\". I can only imagine what provoked that.", 
        "But they do.", 
        "hahaha is this real", 
        "Here's the thing; I can talk as much shit as possible about how Shane is being a bad parent not letting his daughter explore her own eventual sexuality, and the repercussions that stem from that. It's true, and it's not healthy in the long term.\n\nBut then I remember Shane Carwin is a mean fucking dude that is ~250 lbs of bulldozer that would shatter my skull with a punch and in that case I'll leave the man to raise his kid as he sees fit. You don't have to agree with it and he's the one that'll deal with the consequences; I just really don't want my skull smashed in.", 
        "Here's the thing: It's a good thing we're on the internet and there are places in the world where people with ridiculous attitudes can have their ridiculous attitudes picked apart without the threat of violence?", 
        "Fight me irl noob", 
        "Yes, it's Shane Fucking Carwin. The real one.", 
        "You really are going the other way with this; I have an issue with the idea of the \"protect the girls\" mentality; but, you're basically shaming girls who are promiscuous. I can understand people wanting to protect their daughters and accidentally stepping into the misogyny puddle, but you're cannonballing into that shit.\n\n", 
        "I think we can all agree that while promiscuity in itself isn't a bad thing at all, that it can be a symptom of something that is negative. In this case, the people with overprotective fathers who go on to be promiscuous are usually not doing it just because they like the feeling of a weiner, it's because there's something missing emotionally or otherwise in them.\n\nThat is to say, plenty of healthy, happy 'sluts', but the ones who chase affirmations from strangers because of familial issues are more likely hurting than not, at the very least anecdotally\n\nI mean, the guy above in all likelihood wasn't saying what I'm saying, but I feel like it's worth clarifying in my mind that promiscuity, while not bad in a vacuum, can often be a facet of some underlying deficit, particularly in the case of father-daughter strain, like was described by the guy a couple of posts up this comment chain \n\n", 
        "What your saying is very different than what he was saying which was essentially \"You want your daughter to go around fucking lots of people!?\" It lacked the nuance you have here. ", 
        "Oh yeah totally, like I said I really don't think he's saying what I'm saying. I didn't post this as an argument against you or anything, I just felt like adding on for the discussion, I probably should have made it more clear I wasn't defending him", 
        "Me strong man. Me have zero respect for daughter. Me control her budding sexuality and me threatened by 15 year old males. Me want to alienate daughter and make her feel like she can't relate to me in the slightest. ", 
        "You stupid. Not understand joke. Like 90% of the fathers I've met mess around like this. It's hard for some parents to watch their kids grow up so fast. ", 
        "What's the joke? Explain it to me", 
        "You, currently.", 
        "If you don't understand what the joke is then you won't agree with any explanation.", 
        "No seriously, what's the punchline? I'm pretty sure you don't know the difference between an actual joke and saying something in a joking manner.", 
        "Sorry, but you would like everyone to explain the exact way they speak? Saying something was a joke implies that it was in a joking manner. Yes, by the TECHNICAL definition of the word \"joke\" he probably wasn't telling a joke. BUT if you're a semi-intelligent human being, you know that words can be interpreted differently. The \"joke\" here (as I obviously have to explain since you can't see yourself) is that the picture is of an MMA fighter sending his daughter off to a date. The OP comment was ALSO by an MMA fighter, who made the stereotypical \"protective father\" comment. Sometimes, being a stereotype on purpose is a joke in and of itself to poke fun at the people (like you) who actually think this guy is being honest. You don't need a punchline to joke about someone. You just need a sense of humor.", 
        "Giving a boy a hard time because he's dating his little girl? That's literally what the post is about. Keep up. ", 
        "Do you really not get the joke? It's the old as time \"father who's overprotective of his daughter\" shtick. Maybe if he said he wasn't serious, you'd have a point, but there's really nothing to indicate he's being serious. Yet you're acting like if you genuinely know his thoughts on how to raise a daughter. ", 
        "But I thought it was supposed to be funny.", 
        "Yeah,  threatening my sons with harm for wanting to date a girl is hilarious. ", 
        "Just because everybody does it doesn't make it funny. ", 
        "Just sit down and revisit a highlight reel before the date.. Worse than the rest of that combined", 
        "And just look at the date the whole time. No words. No expression ", 
        "Think about this for a minute. I'm assuming your daughter is relatively young. When it's time from prom and dating and all that jazz, you may very well be able to program waypoints into a car and send her on her merry way.", 
        "yes, the future is bright", 
        "What if she dates Brock Lesnar? Hope he behaves so you don't get yourself beat up? ", 
        "Dude, trust your daughter *a little*. Sure, you want her to be safe, but if you treat like this, she'll end up with some seriously fucked up mental issues around dating. And she may not like you very much if you try to control her like this. You might ruin your whole relationship with your daughter.", 
        "Ain't no telling how much pussy I've gotten off daddy issues", 
        "*You WILL ruin your relationship with your daughter.", 
        "I'm just wondering. Did you notice it was Shane Carwin? XD ", 
        "I don't follow MMA (came here from front page) but when his flair said \"Yup, the real one\" I assumed who he was and Googled him.", 
        "He shitposts a lot on our subreddit. Check his posts. You might find it funny", 
        "When I'm a father I'll remember being overprotective only drives them to deeper secrecy. \n\nTeach em about safe sex and you won't end up finding out she's pregnant several months in when she starts to show. ", 
        "Why? Is she not allowed to have relationships?", 
        "When you become a dad you will get it", 
        "Heh.  This coming from a short list of guys who hit harder than Chuck. ", 
        "Luckily my dad was not like this for me.  And hey,  I managed to grow up just fine. Imagine that, I owned my own sexuality. ", 
        "You're the type of dad whose daughter is gonna be a whore because you're too overbearing. Unless you're kidding of course..", 
        "I'd love to have this conversation face to face. Unless you are kidding of course.....", 
        "You'd got some serious issues, man. ", 
        "Ok tough guy on an mma forum lol", 
        "Hahaha calling Shane Carwin a keyboard warrior hahahah", 
        "Not that I disagree with what you're saying, but you do realize that tough guy is Shane Carwin right?", 
        "This is gonna be a TIFU in a few hours. ", 
        "Why, because you'd beat him up?", 
        "damn, didn't realize Shane Carwin is a possessive creep. ", 
        "What age do you think she would be ready to fall in love and meet someone that truly loves her back? Surely you want that for her one day, right? ", 
        "I hope I don't get it. I want my kids (And I mean teenagers 16+) to have relationships and enjoy safe sex. Doesn't matter if they are my son or daughter. Safe and responsible sex is fun and healthy.", 
        "Oft, heavy.", 
        " \"kids\" should not be having sex. ", 
        "I think these people still have a teenage mindset and don't really understand your point. I'm a ways away from being a parent but I can't fathom the idea of my future kid having sex. Even after 18, that's just a weird thought no parent wants to have.", 
        "I wish I was on Little House at times. Having a boy you worry less about this stuff. You teach him to respect the girls and not be that guy. But when you have a daughter you are at a huge disadvantage as The Dad. You want to protect them from everything. Its odd. My son stubs his toe he gets the walk it off talk, my daughter stubs her toe and I want to speak to whomever made the sidewalk.", 
        "Man, this thread is crazy. Being the type of fighter you are I bet you're just protective by nature; add in a little girl and I bet it's off the charts. I'm positive your daughter will appreciate it more than she ever tells you, they love that feeling. (I'm stealing the sidewalk line, too.)", 
        "*m'daughter*", 
        "I know you mean well when you say this, but it's really better for your daughter if you shed this idea. Your daughter is a person like any other, she's a person that will one day have sexual desires, and have relationships, and have friends and problems and troubles and everything else wonderful and horrible that comes with being a person. And her father babying her, putting her on a pedestal, telling her it's not okay to have sex, or get hurt, or protecting her, and all these other things we do out of love and we think are helping, they're doing her a disservice. When she's old enough to go to prom, if you were a good parent she's old enough to make her own decisions. And you shouldn't rob her of that right because you have this naive assumption someone's going to take advantage of her. If you educated her well, no one will because no one can. You want your child to be independent, to understand limits and if they're ready to do things, and to be able to stand up for themselves. You have to teach them that, you can't baby them for 18 years and then wonder why things went south for your kid when they left for college. You're raising another person, and that person is going to experience life, with or without you, good or bad, and wouldn't you rather they have a good life with you in it?", 
        "> If you educated her well, no one will because no one can.\n\nI understand your point but this is completely wrong. Shit happens. And it's perfectly normal/natural/healthy for a father to be protective or even slightly overly-protective of his daughter.", 
        "Sure, shit happens. But it's certainly not healthy to be overly-protective of your daughter. You can want to be, but in action it's not a healthy relationship for either party at that point. If you're not also overly-protective of your sons, you're setting a sexist precedent for your daughters that they are people that need to be shielded and protected. That's not healthy in any way. Just setting your daughter up to be someone's object doing that, you're showing that you own her sexuality and person and that only you can give it away to someone. That shit should stop happening. Treat your daughters with the respect they deserve, they're people, not just your precious children.", 
        "That's weird. Why don't you want your daughter to learn to walk it off or your son to be cuddled when he cries? Pick one behavior for both sexes. ", 
        "That made me feel incredibly sad for your son. Why doesn't he deserve the same amount of comfort and protection as your daughter does?", 
        "I am not from America so I am not sure how old you are at prom but I believe it is around 16. I think that is OK if they feel ready for it and know how to be safe.", 
        "Kids are gonna have sex, yea, doesn't mean their parents should be okay with it. My kid will smoke weed and drink but I'm gonna educate about it while still not supporting it.", 
        "How do you know your kid is going to drink and smoke? Most kids actually don't do that until they are older anyway. ", 
        "There's a difference between educating and being an overprotective hover parent though. Chaperoning a 16 year old on a date falls under the latter column in my book. ", 
        "Honestly, in my personal opinion, until a person is ~21 or 22 they won't understand hover parenting at all. When you get older you want your kids to have different experiences than you did. Kids don't listen very well as they get older. The more you hover the less the kid may like it, but it's a hell of a lot more comforting than wondering about \"what ifs\".", 
        "You realise that parents that engage with their children and don't stigmatise sex or drinking or drugs or whatever the fuck actually make more of a difference than some meathead threats?\n\nMy parents made sure to educate me about sex, provided condoms etc. You know who ended up pregnant? The kids whose ignorant parents did nothing except deny. It's not just ignorant nowadays but negligent, to approach otherwise.", 
        "You didn't have sex until you were 18? Can't fight nature. All humans really want to do is eat, fuck and sleep. ", 
        "And a fathers instinct is to protect his daughters from guys with that mindset.", 
        "What if his daughter is the one with that mindset? ", 
        "We shall burn her.", 
        "> eat, fuck and sleep.\n\nTeenage City?", 
        "I'm not sure what Teenage City is, pretty old saying though. ", 
        "I also want a big bag of weed 24/7. But sometimes it's best to try and control your natural urges lol", 
        "Or you know fuck off with this outdated retarded notion of 'get in there son' 'stay pure daughter' bullshit.\n\nLaugh at the shitty joke, but honestly his 'wait til you become a dad' shit is backwards as fuck. Most normal parents nowadays don't subscribe to that, they're educated.", 
        "Or... not. Gimme a big bag o' weed a day and a blonde with an ass that don't stop and I'd die a happy man.", 
        "Downvoted for being a respectable person, fucking retarded.\n\nYours is the proper approach.", 
        "When I become a dad, I assure you I won't become a misognystic ass clown. But, thanks, Shane.", 
        "Pretty sure being protective of your daughter doesn't qualify as misogynistic. Quite the opposite in fact.", 
        "Actually, it can be misognystic, and in this case, most certainly is. Again, it's understandable and not malicious, but it is misogynstic, because under no circumstances do people think of their sons in this manner.", 
        "Acting like this does not protect her in any way shape or form.", 
        "As a joke? This seems like a joke to me. Overprotection I agree leads to bad shit but being a little protective of your daughter is a dad's job.\n\n*edit* The photo seems like a joke to me.", 
        "This specific picture most likely is a joke but the attitude is all too real. You'll notice there multiple people in this thread who are defending it.", 
        "Eh, I'm the type of guy to sit down and chat with the boy while the daughter is getting ready. No threatening, just a short conversation to get to know the boy that wants to date my daughter. Its what my pop did and it worked out well for my sister.", 
        "Good luck", 
        "Maybe you should consider that you're doing your daughter a disservice, sabotaging any relationship she might have and chance at a happy sexual life. Maybe you should consider that you're a terrible parent for thinking this is acceptable behavior. Maybe you should consider you're setting terrible expectations for your daughter's life by thinking she has to be this pure person and putting her on a pedestal to never be harmed. Your daughter is going to have sex. Probably in high school. Probably with multiple people in that time. And judging by what you've said so far, she's going to be clueless. She's not going to know how to say no, how to judge when she's ready, how to prevent pregnancy and STDs, how to navigate a relationship after sex and during it and deal with emotions that come from having sex, she's not going to know how to identify if she's being taken advantage of or if her feelings are normal, or anything else that has to do with sex. Because her lousy father thought her virginity had to be protected. You're not a good dad for doing this. You're a terrible father and a terrible person for thinking of your daughter and women in general in that way, and I really hope your daughter's sake you shape up before she's an adult because you're setting her up to have a terrible life.", 
        "Easier to be sarcastic than consider that you might be wrong, huh?", 
        "Lots of dads manage it all the time.  I never got the whole \"when you have a daughter,  you'll understand\" nonsense. ", 
        "It's the same sort of mentality that racists have, in a way. \"We're all a little racist...\" No dude, we're really not.", 
        "It's the same with the \"I know what it's like to be a teenage boy\"  argument.  Most teenage boys manage to not rape people, regardless of how horny they get. ", 
        "Funny that for all the \"i know what it's like to be a teenage boy\" they forget that the macho parade dads were mocked and seen as insecure. Whereas the parents that behaved as adults should, were generally respected.", 
        "Try being a daughter, maybe you'll get it then...", 
        "Take all my upvotes", 
        "I'm reminded of a story on here a girl told, her father was the typical \"oh boy coming over better pull out the shotgun\" jokester. Always had some sort of threat any time she showed interest in dating \"completely in jest\". One day her brother saw her walking with a guy and \"completely in jest\" took it upon himself to go beat up the guy. He father and brother are very confused as to why she doesn't talk to either of them or include them in her life. \n\nSo be careful with your protection, you might alienate your daughter. ", 
        "Sounds more like the brother was crazy, and that alienated her, rather than him being over protective. ", 
        "Doesn't mean she still doesn't (rightly or wrongly) blame the father. \n\nJust or unjust you can't make people involve you in their lives. ", 
        "Look that's a personal anecdote, and not even your own, so it's hard for me to even believe it to be true. You can't make people involve you but if you're family you're involved regardless. You can become uninvolved, but someone really has to fuck it up for you to want to cut ties with your family. \n\nFrankly I don't buy that their over protectiveness was the deciding factor. It may been a deep rooted issue, like if she wasn't able to communicate with them that it wasn't ok and they still didn't care, but I think it always runs a bit deeper than just over protectiveness. That's an issue that you should be able to communicate to your family. ", 
        "I don't disagree with you. It may or may not be true like most things on the Internet. And I 100% agree your family is who you should be able to discuss things with. However I know plenty of people personally who keep their family at a distance for various reasons including being suffocated (also known as overprotective). \n\nI'm not going to tell anyone how to parent, so I'm sorry if that's how the comment was interpreted, my intention was to relay that you can take the \"protective father\" thing too far unintentionally alienate your family. ", 
        "And I agree with that sentiment. ", 
        "It's insane to pull out a gun to threaten a teenager with it, whether joking or otherwise. ", 
        "Agreed especially in this day and age when many teenagers are guns of their own", 
        "No, not especially because of that, because it's literally insane to threaten someone's life. Regardless I knew zero teens that had a gun, so I'm not sure where you live. ", 
        "I know this thread is old and off topic but just as an anecdote I've had a pistol in my glove compartment since I was 16. Totally not common though, I don't know anyone else who did that at that age. Most of my friends now carry on their person or in their car but we're all late 20s now. \n\nThe dad is still a piece of shit for the threats. Even 16 year old me knew guns are for killing, not threatening. ", 
        "But teenagers threaten everyone around them because, like guns, they can go off and maim everyone nearby", 
        "That's..  A disturbing view and also untrue. ", 
        "You become sexist and possessive?", 
        "Don't be so naive, it's the same protective feeling as when you meet your sister or mums new guy. You want to see what they're worth and what they're made of; some people go about this differently. ", 
        "I don't think your point has swayed anyone - in fact I think people are somewhat confused you are thinking about your sister and mum getting banged.", 
        "Thanks", 
        "Or you know, well adjusted people realise that people have sex.\n\nIt's a messed up immature person that has any issue with their female relatives having sex.", 
        "Ok man hope you keep that in mind if you have a daughter", 
        "As opposed to a son?\n\nI don't have children, but I also hope I don't become a hypocritical moron either.\n\nBack to your original post though, I do have a younger sister and a mother, and really don't give a second thought to their sex lives. Weird huh?!", 
        "I'm a guy so I'd be more encouraging to my son to be completely honest, but at the end of the day if he was only slaying strange I wouldn't be cool with that. \n\nSure you don't. What if they brought home someone like me, a hypocritical moron, would you still be so blase? ", 
        "I wasn't calling you a hypocritical moron, I was saying I would be if I had a child and suddenly flipped views.\n\nHey man if my mum or sister liked you it's none of my business.", 
        "you become suspicious and protective. mostly you won't do anything about it but agonize over the possibilities, but it is always there. ", 
        "le vanguard of my daughter's virginity", 
        "m'Dana", 
        "Maybe he's just joking? Crazy I know...", 
        "Maybe b304521 is just joking? Crazy I know...", 
        "Clearly he's joking...we don't need you to explain that to us. ", 
        "Nope! But his son is. In fact, he encourages his son in that aspect as much as he can while shaming his daughter for her sexual independence. It's the American way. ", 
        "Better then the Arab way...", 
        "You seem to be making quite a few leaps based on a funny picture.", 
        "Just making fun of the culture in general. ", 
        "Online: \"not all men!\"\n\nTo daughter: \"yes, every fucking one of them.\"\n\nI don't know maybe raise your shitty sons better then?", 
        "The woosh is strong in this thread ", 
        "Who is high fiving their sons for getting laid? I don't know a single dad that talks about that with their kid.", 
        "You don't know any dads that talk about sex with their kids. You are going to know a lot of grandpas soon.", 
        "Yay for owning your daughter's sexuality! ", 
        "I can only imagine being 16 and going to pick up my date, only to see /u/ShaneCarwin standing at the door.  I'd ask for his autograph and then pretend I had the wrong house, lest I be snuffed out by his ham-hands.", 
        "it would be cool to see him, plus it would be a good ice breaker to use to initiate confortable conversation with chucks daughter in the limo if you were nervous. but as a 16 y/o, i would have been shitting my pants and having a panic attack. it would have been bad enough going out with a smoking hot blonde girl.", 
        "I hope the day never comes but everyday we are a bit closer. ", 
        "And so the world continues to turn, spinning ever closer to that inevitable day my daughter's panties drop. ", 
        "Im getting a hint that DJ Carwin has dropped some tracks in the past?", 
        "I have a MAC and Headphones, I am a DJ", 
        "Add a Traktor Kontroller (spelled like that yes) and I'll consider this claim to be true lol.", 
        "Or you'll really like the kid; he'll respect you and your daughter more importantly.", 
        "Ah the old nice guy trick", 
        "I'm still going on the date", 
        "That's sad.", 
        "I don't know, maybe teach your daughter how to make reasonable decisions and trust her enough to do so. Or you can keep doing the whole overprotective dad-schtick-thing and be in charge of her sexuality like some creepy pimp. Your call I guess. ", 
        "Wooshhhhh", 
        "Or maybe he can let her be used like a fucktoy by a few guys so she can learn the lesson herself.\n\nThis is how she'll mature right?By having bad experiences and learning from them?\n\nEdit:What's the disagreement?", 
        "Liberals are easily butthurt.", 
        "He didn't get laid until he was 35 and he wants his daughter to do the same.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Or maybe you guys are all taking this too seriously and don't realize he's just joking? ", 
        "Perhaps, but then we have to ask ourselves if the joke is funny. Going even further, was it ever?", 
        "A joke is a joke, you can debate and decide on whether or not it's actually funny but the point is that a large number of people make jokes like this about their daughters and don't follow through so making assumptions about his character like the other 40 people in these comments are is ridiculous.", 
        "Well if I have to entertain the idea that it's a joke, then you have to entertain that it's not. ", 
        "He's joking. It's not anyone else's problem but yours if you can't see that, you oversensitive millennial.", 
        "What if he swings on you with his high school noodle arm and it just so happens to connect in the right spot knocking you out? ", 
        "Hope she gets my old ass to the ER and not goes on the date", 
        "Would she be able to pick you up though? You're kinda big.", 
        "For you.", 
        "You should hold the guy in your lap the whole time.", 
        "Pet him like a poodle", 
        "You're not cool by being some 'tough guy' dad, you sound like an outdated loser.", 
        "Relevant username", 
        "My username may be stupid, but at least my views aren't.", 
        "I wouldn't be so sure about that m8 ", 
        "My views line up with health professionals of this century, as opposed to some fighter with a puritanical outlook. Yeah I'm the stupid one.", 
        "Right because life advice comes from guys that have this username", 
        "Hahaha yep. Don't judge a book by its cover and all that.\n\nGuy that responded like a responsible parent, talking to your children about safe sex got downvoted. Idiot that simply says 'kids should not have sex' is upvoted. Go figure.", 
        "I'm pretty sure you got downvoted for calling the real Shane Carwin an outdated loser for saying something literally every guy who has a daughter, or has thought about what it would be like to have a daughter, has thought before. ", 
        "I'd call any random tom, dick or harry an outdated loser if he thought that way. I disagree that every guy thinks that way, id say most guys don't. \n\nIntimidating dad is a trope that shouldn't be encouraged.", 
        "\"Shhh, it's going to be okay\"", 
        "Just don't pull a Lennie. ", 
        "I thought that said GSP tracker. I certainly wouldn't want to be with a girl and Georges pop out to say \"I'm not impress by your performance\".", 
        "gsp = garden state parkway", 
        "OR, the greatest welterweight ever", 
        "Or a beautiful breed of dog.", 
        "I'm dying lol", 
        "Saves driving aroound shouting 'Ey where you at Georges!?'", 
        "LOL and people are looking at me", 
        "....aliens are abducting me", 
        "Just throw a molotov cocktail into its mouth. ", 
        "Loved the movie but that part threw me off.", 
        "\"you've gotta be kidding me\" ", 
        "That kid must have an excellent tailor because you cannot see those bowling ball sized balls at all. ", 
        "Someone's going to see them by the end of the night. ", 
        "Chuck?", 
        "That was the cutest picture of Chuck Liddell I have ever seen. ", 
        "I was walking through a shopping area in Korea late at night last year and I saw Chuck Liddell with his entourage.  I yelled out ICE MAN as loud as I could and he just turned and stared me down.  I realized at that moment I messed up by being rude and yelling but right as I went to walk away he clenched his fist and smiled at me.  Was definitely a cool experience.", 
        "To all the people saying \"lol bullshit hard dad act, i'd smash anyways\"\n\n\nGuys. Its just a joke. Relax. Liddell is probably a really nice guy. If I was in the UFC and had a daughter, i'd probably do the same thing for shits and giggles. ", 
        "He is.  REALLY nice actually.  It's been a few years, but he was pretty much a regular at the Vegas Hard Rock.", 
        "Not to mention that he says on FB it was a Sadie Hawkins dance, meaning his daughter asked that poor dude out lol", 
        "Calabasas Commons.", 
        "Glad someone else recognized it.", 
        "I use to live in the area.", 
        "I recognized it immediately. Used to skate there every day after school. ", 
        "I worked at the Barnes and Noble for a few years and instantly recognized it. ", 
        "Who's the other guy??", 
        "That's Chucks bf.", 
        "https://youtu.be/Hb9aGovCJYY?t=26", 
        "i come to reddit to find out I have no original thoughts, thank you for the vid, and the sobering reminder /u/pixie-army", 
        "Considering that Uncle Chuck is around 6'2\" that kid must be 6'3\"", 
        "Chuck Liddell with that look in his eye Joe!", 
        "Calabasas?", 
        "Definitely. Source, that's where I grew up. ", 
        "Yup", 
        "This makes me want to go eat at Sugar Fish.", 
        "Shibuya or bust. ", 
        "Every dude I see posting pics like these on Facebook are the same dudes that pop'd Mary Sue's cherry after homecoming. ", 
        "If the last few fights of his career are any indication, the kid should be able to KO him pretty easily. ", 
        "Real talk: Chuck Liddell's daughter is probably one of the safer girls to date. Sure, Chuck could kick your ass harder than 99.99% of other dads, but he's not going to. UFC fighters are very capable of kicking someone's ass, but they're also extremely capable of controlling their anger.\n\nThink about it. As a professional fighter, he spent like 20 years having guys constantly call him out, insult him at press conferences, call him a pussy, and do anything else they could think of to try and piss him off. All the while, he had to restrain himself, because punching a guy outside of a sanctioned fight is an easy way to get yourself a lifetime ban from the sport. Likewise, beating a teenage kid to half to death would probably get him a few years in prison, and that teenage kid is going to spend those years banging his daughter like a screen door in a hurricane.\n\nSo sure, Chuck Liddell might want to beat your ass, but he's also smart enough to know that he can't, and he has decades of experience in containing his anger.\n\n&nbsp;\n\n^(Yeah yeah, I know this isn't meant to be a serious post. No, I'm not fun at parties :(. I just thought it was an interesting thing to think about.)", 
        "Lol", 
        "Dont have a daughter me bets. He could disappear you and make the rest of your short life agonizing. ", 
        "Damn dude. What do you think Obama would do if someone took one his daughters out to a school dance? Drop an atomic bomb on his home town?", 
        "Naa, thats too big. He would send the Secret Service to dispatch your parents and flush your dogs head down the toilet. But really having a daughter brings out some really serious emotions for a dad. ", 
        "Lol where do you get this from?  I was in an after hour club in LV one time and watched him destroy a guy for looking at him funny and I was an innocent bystander in their path (got my drink knocked out of my hand).  The cool thing was that Chuck did buy me a drink after the dust settled.", 
        "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_Machine_(mixed_martial_artist)", 
        "Right, because War Machine really sets the standard for MMA fighters. \n", 
        "War Machine would like a word with you. . .", 
        "He also knows how to hurt people in a way that wouldn't leave a mark but would still hurt a fuckton. Google \"calf slicer/calf ripper\". It's one of my go-to favorite jiujitsu moves and I don't think it leaves a mark (though it *might* bruise the next day)", 
        "I don't know what you're talking about, a calf slicer is a knee compression, which means that after tearing up the calf it'll attack the knee. Definitely not just a bruise if applied fully.", 
        "Every time I've applied it people tap long before it gets into knee damage. My point was that he can just sink it in and hold it to a certain degree which would hurt a lot without causing significant damage. Not everyone is Palhares lol.", 
        "Also if you're underage and Chuck did snap on you and kick your ass, and you manage to live through it, you'll probably be awarded enough money to retire.  ", 
        "> Likewise, beating a teenage kid to half to death would probably get him a few years in prison, and that teenage kid is going to spend those years banging his daughter like a screen door in a hurricane.\n\nIf you're going to jail anyway might as well beat him fully to death. That way he can't bang your kid when you're inside. ", 
        "> UFC fighters are very capable of kicking someone's ass, but they're also extremely capable of controlling their anger.\n\nSome of them.  Imagine the poor sap that dates Diego Brandao's daughter.", 
        "Yeah and then when some pro fighter/boxer/etc. abuses their wife it's all, \"well what did you expect, his job requires him to be abusive and angry!\". Literally happened with that one guy, I forget his name, I think 50 cent made fun of him because he can't read?", 
        "Or Travis Browne and Rondas daughter...  Say bye-bye to your eyeballs.", 
        "and your arm", 
        "Is that fucking Chris Pratt?", 
        "[Chris Pratt IS Chuck Liddell](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/50/29/05/502905c9a8665ef7e98336495507b138.jpg)", 
        "Wait, where the fuck is this from?", 
        "About the only big show pratt had ever been on, parks and rec.", 
        "parks and rec", 
        ">  \n\nI want to watch this show purely because of this picture", 
        "that's fantastic.\n\nshame I could never get into that show.", 
        "Gets way better in season 2.  Could pretty much skip season 1 and still be fine.", 
        "Yeah, I heard that too. I just cannot appreciate screen time from anyone not named Rashida Jones.\n\n\nI probably have a shit sense of humor, don't worry.", 
        "Give it shot maybe - it basically turns into a completely different show.\n\nThe addition of Adam Scott really helps too.of", 
        "I'll see what I can do bb", 
        "It's a little dumb sometimes. But Pratt and April actually steal the show.", 
        "Parks and Rec", 
        "She has large feet.", 
        "And we all know what that means. ", 
        "So who's the guy on the right, Chuck's boyfriend? ", 
        "I can just imagine Chuck's face fixed like that all night long. ", 
        "Chucks life partner has nice hair", 
        "Y'all are the most PC overcritical sensitive bunch I've ever seen.", 
        "Unfortunately for his daughter, she looks just like him.", 
        "Yeah that's the other reason this kid is brave", 
        "Chuck will do coke off his dead body if he tries anything. ", 
        "RIP Brave Kid", 
        "Just flick him on the chin, he'll go away ", 
        "Don't let that guy fool you, he's at Disneyland like 4 times a week. ", 
        "FWIW and I know the Tim Kennedy hate is strong here.. but if something happened to that girl it's not Chuck I'd be worried about.. it's the fact that she's half sister to Tim Kennedy's kid.. somehow I don't see him a fan of anything that would upset his kid..", 
        "Considering Tim was special forces I'd be afraid too. ", 
        "Still is, actually. ", 
        "Let me bang bro, let me bang!", 
        "As long as he doesn't offer her a penis gobbler he'll be good.", 
        "https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=zqetEj4dZ_UFear boners are real.", 
        "That kid has a smirk that means only one thing ", 
        "[Just a night out on the town](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rG0cP9ofz8)", 
        "Brave kid....stupid.....but brave.", 
        "come on man... she is not THAT ugly...", 
        "Chuck's got that look in his eyes.", 
        "Faint heart never won fair lady. You go kid!", 
        "She smilin' like \"Haha oh daddy you're so silly\" but I don't think he's kidding", 
        "I hate that \"IMMA KILL YOU IF YOU TOUCH MAH DAUGHTAH BOY!\" shit.\n\nIf you didn't raise your daughter well enough to make her own decisions about who she lets inside of her, guess who's fault that is? (Hint: Not the guy who's going to be inside your daughter despite all of your \"HAR HAR HAR! AH GOT MAH AHY ON U BOY!\" redneck-bullshit threats)", 
        "I knew there would be at least one in this thread. ", 
        "Pretty sure this was a joke for a picture", 
        "It's just a dance dude, not about Chucks daughter letting someone pound her. What the fuck man", 
        "I think it's satire of exactly what you're describing. *woooosh*", 
        "Satire is amusing. This is the same tired shit used so a power-tripping dad looking forward to a bleak, boring 20 years or left of life can try to re-live his \"young and powerful\" days by intimidating a kid that his daughter has feelings for, as if puberty wasn't awkward and difficult enough without a grown ass man threatening you for the crime of being attractive to his daughter.\n\nThen, the rednecks that engage in this behavior (like you) try to duck anyone calling them on their bullshit by saying \"Aww, I was just playing. It's that 'saduhree' thing! Like that John Oliver! It was okay for him to say 'Drumpf', but it's not okay for me to say Imma kill a tween boy? I thought this was America!!!\" ", 
        "You think the only excitement chuck will get for the next 20 years is staring down his daughters date? \n\nDude snorts cocaine front row at any UFC fight he wants. He's loaded with a hot blonde wife. And is in action movies. ", 
        "> Dude snorts cocaine front row at any UFC fight he wants. He's loaded with a hot blonde wife. And is in action movies.\n\nWhich just makes his intimidation of his daughter's prom date all the more pathetic.\n\nChuck is wealthy and famous. This kid is busting his ass to pass Biology. He's got enough problems in life without having to indulge the bullshit \"IM THE DADDY! I GET RESPECT!\" whims of a former UFC champ.", 
        "Did Chuck sleep with your mom or something?", 
        "Hey bud, it's generally not a good idea to double down when you're clearly wrong.\n\nedit: Also, Chuck Liddell is from Santa Barbara, which isn't exactly redneck country.", 
        "Hey guy, if I cared what a bunch of child-bullying \"adults\" thought, I wouldn't have said anything. I knew the sentiment wasn't going to be popular in those particular social circles. \n\nJust because a bunch of backwards fucks get their rocks off by threatening nervous children on prom night doesn't make it right.", 
        "You're just adorable.", 
        "https://therapists.psychologytoday.com/rms/", 
        "lmao you need a break", 
        "What the fuck are you getting personal for? It is quite fucking obvious that it's satire, I highly doubt someone famous would market himself in a bad light like that. Consider also how his daughter might be involved in the setup with the retweed and tags and all", 
        "I was going to say this was a woosh for the ages but then I read his replies and I dont want to be the guy who picks on a retard.", 
        "They're obviously joking and just posing for the photo. Doubt Chuck would provide a Rolls Royce for them to ride in if he didn't approve. ", 
        "Pshh. Just a bunch of mean looks. My dad showed my date his gun collection. \n\nEditing to say you guys don't recognize a joke when you read one. ", 
        "haha, ridicolous.", 
        "So you're saying your dad is a sociopath.", 
        "Just a good ol boy. They think doing that is... I dunno. Actually a thing.", 
        "Honestly i'd never talk to you again. Or at least never visit your parents' house :') But i don't live in America and i've never seen a gun that wasn't attached to the hip of a police officer so my frame of reference is a little different i guess :D", 
        "I'm not a dad. And I wouldn't do this if I was one. I think it's stupid. It's a bizarre redneck culture thing in America. And it's not responsible firearm ownership in my opinion. I own them and I do some target shooting. But when they're not at the range or being cleaned afterwords they are in a safe.", 
        "I think owning guns are a citizen is a bizarre thing full stop. Unless you're an actual hunter or something. ", 
        "You know the entire history of guns in America is to protect ourselves from the government anyways, right? That's why they're in the constitution. That's where the second amendment comes from.", 
        "When the last hurricane came through my area we had to evacuate, but some of stayed behind in the neighborhood, with guns, in case looters came. Sure enough, looters showed up to steal or whatever else since no way the police can be everywhere. They saw an armed neighborhood and left immediately. Without the guns, the looters could have easily done anything they wanted to anybody around and taken whatever they pleased.", 
        "im not even gonna start explaining how backwards this argument is.", 
        "Having lived in numerous countries I understand that be living the government will always be there to take care of you is a prevalent mentality, but it is also a foolish mentality.\n", 
        "Maybe if you don't live in a police state", 
        "That is amazing to me that you have never seen a non-police firearm. You'd have to be super sheltered to grow up in America without seeing that. ", 
        "It's normal to me, we don't particularly need to own firearms. (Neither do American citizens imo, but im not gonna get into a gun-debate :P) It's amazing you can just fucking buy murder weapons at a Walmart. In some states even without a decent background check. ", 
        "Yea in my state (Pennsylvania) I can buy guns at Walmart at 18, but I have to go to a state store and be 21 to buy liquor. Its fucking ridiculous. ", 
        "Jep. You can also be a soldier at 17. Old to enough to kill, not old enough to drink or fucking DRIVE.", 
        "Nah you can drive at 16 at least in most states. 16.5 in mine without another adult in the car. ", 
        "Read up on Alaska sometime", 
        "Not really interested.", 
        "LOL alright. Just picture american gun laws and then picture WORSE.", 
        "isnt like half of Alaska an alcoholic?", 
        "You can buy a murder weapon anywhere. Anything can be a murder weapon.", 
        "i knew this strawman was coming", 
        "Yeah stay where you at, we love guns in america", 
        "Would he have done the same with your brothers date?", 
        "Has that ever backfired (pun hehe)? I love me some range time so that would actually be a good thing for us to talk about. ", 
        "I'd be scared of Chuck more than your dad and his gun collection.", 
        "What a load of horseshit. I'd rather fight Chuck Liddell than someone with a gun smh", 
        "I dunno, the chances of Chuck hitting you with a leg kick or liver shot are much higher than gun-dad actually shooting you.", 
        "Chuck *is* crazy enough to get an Assault & Battery charge, especially for his daughter. Average dad Assault with a deadly weapon..... much less likely.", 
        "Chuck Liddell is a lethal weapon - he don't need no firearms ", 
        "Fuck, i'd rather be shot than beaten up by the iceman", 
        "Richard Kuklinski would only torture you if he got paid extra. ", 
        "The bullet could kill you instantly. Chuck will hurt you whole time you're dying. ", 
        "hail of bullets or get tee'd off on, Tito Ortiz style.", 
        "Problem is that Chuck would knock himself out with a ricochet of his own punch, that chin went from granite to sponge.", 
        "Sponge implies an ability to absorb though! Granite to brittle glass is more like it haha ", 
        "Technically correct.", 
        "Nothing ventured nothing gained ", 
        "Reminds me of Will Smith and Martin Lawrence in Bad Boys haha . You ever been with a man? Lol", 
        "Well, at least his hair is taller than him.  He's got that going for him.", 
        "Wait how old is this .. Isn't that schwarzeneggers kid ????", 
        "It's fairly recent, check out the movies listed on the marquee.", 
        "The more dirty looks you give him the harder he's gonna hit your daughter in the ass.", 
        "The look on the kid \"ehehehe... I don't know what to do with my hands...\"", 
        "Ha I work across the street from that Theatre!", 
        "I'm jealous of this dude.", 
        "Kid, just wait for the frowny face he makes before he throws the big over hand right, and you'll be okay. ", 
        "\"He's got that look in his eye, Joe!\"", 
        "Yeah , but why is there just a random Dane Cook ?", 
        "Little do you know Chuck was a chaperone for that dance.", 
        "Why is there another guy there? ", 
        "Who's the other kid? The boyfriend?", 
        "I think it's less about bravery and more about film study, he knows chucks chin is gone, just a matter of time. ", 
        "Damn. Kids taller than chuck.", 
        "What? Gay Parents are awesome! ", 
        "Just let me bang bro!", 
        "Kids got balls...especially considering his instagram handle is davidthepimpmaster_17", 
        "Ah yes, the \"I can't handle that my daughter is growing up, so I'll handle it with denial and anger and oops she got out of my sight for 5 seconds now she's pregnant\" look.", 
        "Don't ask for permission beg for forgiveness. ", 
        "Kid by tko", 
        "I wouldn't be too worried about glass Joe getting mad when I fingerblast his daughter", 
        "[Anthony Jeselnik?]( http://www3.pictures.zimbio.com/gi/Comedy+Central+Roast+Roseanne+Barr+Arrivals+TaFQjMl7lnil.jpg)", 
        "First dance? How old is this chick?", 
        "Maybe it's Rich Franklins kid and he knows his dad can beat him up", 
        "Her legs are amazing!", 
        "Its ok chuck has a weak chin by now. ", 
        "I met Chuck one time, it was awesome.", 
        "Everyone talking about the balls the kid has, and I'm just sitting here wondering who the fuck hosts a dance at a movie theater.", 
        "Her first time, his last time.", 
        "Fearboner inbound!", 
        "If he dances in front of the screen, it won't be Chuck he will need to worry about.", 
        "I would rather get full mounted by Rumble Johnson", 
        "And his last dance.", 
        "I love how everyone in here is saying Chuck, and fathers of teenage daughters in general, should chill out. More than likely they don't have a teenage daughter and won't have to deal with the repercussions if the daughter gets pregnant. We all know who's parents will end up taking care of the kid the majority of the time.\n\nNow, that being said, hopefully Chuck's SO/Ex will talk some sense into him and let him know he has to let some slack out of the rope and let his daughter become a woman. Most fathers, in my experience, do have someone like that.\n\n\\* That's if this isn't some sort of staged photo. Chuck might actually like the guy.", 
        "I hope he does better than chuck did on the dance floor", 
        "That's a tall kid. I had the luck to meet both Chuck *and* Tito Ortiz in Vegas 10 years ago. Both are listed as 6'2, but I'm 6'1.5 and taller than Tito by a hair but shorter than chuck by a hair. Chuck is a lanky fucker, spider like, where as Tito has a head so big I can't imagine being able to hit hard enough for a brute force knock out :P", 
        "*what do I do with my hands?*", 
        "He can either marry her or live in fear the rest of his life. There are no other options.", 
        "Hope that kids got a mean left hook. ", 
        "Man he is brave. Look at her face.", 
        "So funny cause when I hung out with chuck he was the nicest guy I've ever met and also happens to have hands that could crush that kid's head in one swift squeeze. ", 
        "R.I.P.", 
        "Chuck Liddell, teen, other guy, chucks daughter.\n\nWho is the other guy?", 
        "chucks date ?", 
        "He just went 6 to midnight", 
        "He's got a very punchable face as well ", 
        "I think the word \"lucky\" is more accurate than 'brave\".", 
        "...in a rolls Royce ", 
        "Is that other guy Chucks boyfriend?", 
        "C'mon Chuck, don't act like you didn't want to do the same thing to your date when you were his age.", 
        "If that kid could throw a decent sucker punch, no doubt he could snuff Chuck", 
        "Not as brave as Johnny Drama!", 
        "seems like a good premise for a sitcom episode", 
        "That isn't a kid...that's Liddel's lunch", 
        "i bet he's gonna show her the triangle choke, if ya know what i mean", 
        "For sure he's gonna see how effective his daughter's guard ", 
        "Eh she might take some ground and pound in the later rounds....", 
        "I'd be more worried about that rolls than my daughter. ", 
        "Noone in this sub has the balls that kid has.", 
        "I'd let out a little pee if Chuck was just standing that close to me", 
        "She's hot.\n\nNot referencing the comical pic, but it's so weird that it's considered culturally expected for adult fathers to engage in paranoid sexual jealousy regarding their own daughters... Do they do it with their sons? Of course not. Do *mothers* do it with their sons *or* their daughters? Of course not. Yet girls have that archaic essence known as \"purity\" that can somehow be tainted, rendering them less pristine. It disgusts me. My daughter would receive excellent sexual education, birth control, and privacy.", 
        "Actually it's pretty simple... Fathers know how shitty and manipulative teenage boys can be in order to get in a girls pants (because that was them 20 years before!). They want to protect their daughter from little shits trying all sorts of things... Now, that being said, there is the stereotypical overly protective dad, which usually causes more harm than good, but at the end of the day that stereotype will always be around. Dads want to protect their daughters (from anything and everything) and that includes ill intentioned boys. You are reading way too much into it... But I do agree that trust and education trumps paranoia and threats... Still, it can be a funny joke in the right context.", 
        "Hes got that look in his eye!", 
        "Looking at Chuck Liddel makes me feel bad about what these fighters give up in the cage. His brain is wrecked and a stiff breeze will ko him. Hendo is getting there too. Seems like everything that grazes Hendo sends him stumbling now. ", 
        "How can you tell by looking at him? He looks normal to me. Can you give any examples of why u think his brain is wrecked? ", 
        "He looks normal, but his chin is gone. When he fought his last several fights he was going down to punches he would have walked through earlier in his career. \n\nI said looking at him makes me feel bad about his brain. I didnt say you could tell by looking at him. These guys just lose their chin when they have been banged around a lot. ", 
        "It happens to every fighter and athlete who takes too many blows to the head, there's evidence suggesting that KO's and concussions  can cause clinical depression.\n\n\nThese guys are literally getting there brains scrambled for our entertainment. I wouldn't be surprised if the NFL, NHL, rugby union and MMA implement new rules and preventative methods effectively removing KO's completely and significantly reducing concussions over the next 10 years.\n\n\nIt's only a matter of a couple more guys killing themselves and for more modern day athletes to retire to give scientist the evidence they need of what modern sports does to people.", 
        "It's not exactly a secret. Also, how exactly are you supposed to \"remove KOs\" from a combat sport?", 
        "I heard talks of them implementing head gear and changing the goal of the fights by making it a submission/technical rather than opening up the KO as an avenue to win. \n\n\nHonestly, I don't know.\n\n", 
        "helmets lol", 
        "Why is Dane Cook in the picture", 
        "With chucks chin nowadays that kid would just need to land clean once", 
        "He's already taller 5 more years and then old man might get a beat down.", 
        "That whole super hard dad act only motivated me to pump their daughter even more when I was younger. Spite is a powerful motivator. ", 
        "Who is Chuck Liddell?", 
        "A badass motherfucker.", 
        "A very successful MMA fighter", 
        "Hilarious Reddit Comment: http://i.imgur.com/GCZpNpO.jpg", 
        "Unpopular opinion, but dads who treat their daughters like an object that needs to be monitored and locked up are sending a terrible message. ", 
        "I'm not sure why this is a popular thing. The whole \"don't hurt my daughter\" trope. Statistically, she's just as likely to hurt the boy. But boys can't be victims. I forget.", 
        "Chuck never gets old, it's amazing!", 
        "How old is she, 35?", 
        "Hilarious Reddit Comment: http://i.imgur.com/GCZpNpO.jpg", 
        "Chuck: \"Son, when do you expect to have my daughter home?\"  \nKid: \"Oh, I was thinking around midnight.\"  \nChuck:  \"Have you seen my match against Silva?  Here, let me show it to you.\"  \n\\*Watches match*  \nChuck: \"Now... When do you expect to have her home?\"  \nKid: \"Umm... 9:30pm... Sir?\"  \nChuck: \"Hey, I'm a good guy.  Have her home by 10pm.\"  \nKid: \"Yes sir! Thank you, sir!\"  ", 
        "I soo pity the guy that forces her to prom sex.\n\nedit: speling is sooo im.portant, cause otherwisre no1one klnows what you ment", 
        "\"I so pitty the dude who pressures her into prom sex\"", 
        "-Kenny Florian\n", 
        "really, what the fuck does he have to be afraid of? if chuck slaps him around for fingerbanging his daughter, he would get sued out the ass and charged. win win for the kid, really.", 
        "Dads so protective of their daughters are creepy weird. ", 
        "Who is the other guy in the pic? As if this wasent cringey already. \n\nShit, knowing kids nowadays, she might have gotten fucked that night.", 
        "I think Chris Pratt ", 
        "Then they'd be the same height, all three of them.", 
        "> Shit, knowing kids nowadays, she might have gotten fucked that night.\n\nWhat?  Knowing kids nowadays?  When the fuck did you grow up that kids weren't fucking after a dance?  I'm 37 and it was pretty standard to get down after a dance.  I mean hasn't that been a thing since oh highschool dances have existed?  ARE YOU A TIME TRAVELER?!  ", 
        "14 years old?", 
        "Who cares? Get this trash out of my /r/all feed.", 
        "You guys really like taking a shit on Chuck, eh?\n\nI wonder why it's so popular to crap on fighters who were big before you started watching...", 
        "> You guys really like taking a shit on Chuck, eh?\n> \n\nHow is this taking a shit on Chuck?\n\n> I wonder why it's so popular to crap on fighters who were big before you started watching...\n\n\nOk, Mr. UFC 1.", 
        "> How is this taking a shit on Chuck?\n\nNot the OP - the comment section. Look at it. \n\nWhen I started watching is irrelevant to a critique of how people talk about former top fighters.", 
        "Hilarious Reddit Comment: http://i.imgur.com/GCZpNpO.jpg", 
        "Didn't Chuck choke out his daughters bf once? I vaguely remember him telling such a story.", 
        "We need to sneek the word trump into everything. I try to say pussy, as in, my pimple was pussy,at work as much as possible", 
        "Title is so fucking bad.. Just read the quotations in the article you'll see what Matt is really trying to say ", 
        "He still criticized him for tapping...  Serra just called him a dumb fucker\" for other reasons which is pretty obvious.  You don't call someone a dumb fucker for tapping unless they didn't need to tap.  Conor needed to tap.\n\nThere have been far worse titles than this.", 
        "For real, he didn't call McGregor a dumb fucker for not taking a nap:\n\n>I was so f*cking happy seeing Nate win. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy Conor McGregor, but the shit where he went in on Nate about teaching the kids jiu-jitsu, now look, it's one thing to be witty and this and that, but now you're writing some sh*t, trying to be clever...you know what? You start crossing lines and your karma is not good, either. You start making fun of the guys teaching jiu-jitsu classes...he could be out in the hood doing dirty sh*t, but he's in there teaching kids martial arts, you dumb f*cker. How dare you. That's f*cking stupid. You want to make your money, make your money, but that's stupid.\n\nand the part where he rags on him for taping out:\n\n>Not being a cock, but look at Conor. All the shit you talked, take a nap, man. It's not like your arm was about to break. I understand you want your career and if it was a kneebar, you'll be out for six months, but dude, if worst comes to worst, you'll think you're in your bedroom. That's it. You'll wake up like, \u2018WTF,' but everything will be alright.\n\nNot nearly as bad as the title makes it sounds, fucking clickbait.", 
        "its still pretty dumb.\n\nYou would take a lot more shit if you were unconscious and unable to control yourself. Better he tapped, stood up on his own and cut a post-fight interview with a modicum of dignity.", 
        "Is it considered dangerous to let yourself get put to sleep by a rear naked choke? Like, would it possibly result in a medical suspension or anything?", 
        "It wouldn't result in a medical suspension as long as the ref breaks it up within a reasonable time. Cutting off oxygen to your brain obviously isn't healthy and will result in the loss of some brain cells, but as long as it's only a few seconds you're more then likely not going brain dead.", 
        "People don't go out from Oxygen on RNC. They go out from lack of blood and there is virtually no negative consequences. You go right into rem sleep then wake up. Of course if its held for 1+ minute then there will be consequences. ", 
        "> right into rem sleep\n>go out from lack of blood\n>virtually no negative consequences\n\ntop kek", 
        "> You go right into rem sleep then wake up.\n\nProbably one of the dumbest and most incorrect thing I've ever read on reddit\n\n", 
        "Dude, going into REM is caused by your brain not getting blood. Didn't you know this? ", 
        "Blood is what transports oxygen.", 
        "OK thanks...I was just wondering like maybe for McGregor he knew he wanted to be able to fight again in July and didn't want to lose any time to a medical suspension, but if that's not usual protocol for those situations then I guess not. It's still kinda shitty everyone calling him a pussy for tapping regardless, there's a thin line between being a warrior and an idiot, if you are in a situation you know you can't get out of, no reason to lose those extra brain cells just to preserve your pride. Fighter mentality is odd though. I don't know if you heard Mitrione on MMA Hour last week but he said he feels like in a fight if he goes to sleep instead of tapping he doesn't feel like the other guy truly beat him, because he never gave in...I'm like WTF, so a knockout isn't them beating you either?", 
        "A good RNC is a blood choke, and my instructors said you start suffering brain damage after 30 seconds and should be unable to be resuscitated after 5 minutes.  Assuming that's somewhat accurate, getting choked out once isn't going to do any permanent harm as long as you aren't fighting the Paul Harris of throat hugs.", 
        "There is no negative consequences. You go right into rem sleep then wake up. You will not lose brain cells etc.. Its like taking a nap. Your brain reboots and you wake up. If you deprive the brain of blood for 1+ minute then you'll have problems but even the worst refs never let it go that long. Worst I can think of is a good 8 seconds or so before the ref broke it up which is nothing (Coutures wife in the leg scissor). \n\nIts a very weird feeling though. I've been out twice and you wake up very disoriented because you just had a full dream where you were somewhere else on a beach or something. ", 
        "Although rare, carotid dissection CAN occur from a completed choke, and has killed several people. ", 
        "Random people? or fighters? In hundreds of thousands of recorded judo and jiujitsu matches, with thousands of people being put to sleep due to chokes, plus all the MMA fights we've had since the sport began, there has been no recorded death due to choke. There have been a few (VERY few) instances of brain damage occouring later, but no deaths that I'm aware of. The international Judo federations are especially open about the relative safety of choking out one's opponent. In Jiujitsu the choke, especially blood chokes like the RnC, are considered the pinnacle of the art because  you don't need to hurt or damage the opponent in any way in order to completely subdue him, and it works the same on everyone.\n\ndo you have a source for the claim that several people have been killed? and, again, are these people untrained? because if so, I would imagine the deaths could likely be chalked up to a combination of poor technique and holding onto the choke far too long after the person has passed out. severe carotid artery dissection is usually either spontaneous (big cause of strokes in the middle-aged) or traumatic. traumatic CAD is almost always a result of sudden violent impacts to the neck area or sudden deceleration (usually in car accidents), along with hyperextension and rotation of the neck following the impact trauma/deceleration. this doesn't really describe the situation when a RnC is applied to an opponent. generally there is no impact trauma, and the head does not suddenly shoot forward and hyperextend the neck due to quick deceleration like in a car accident. hence i'd think that carotid artery dissection is not really a significant factor, if at all.", 
        "Carotid dissection from a choke: \nhttp://www.jiujitsuforums.com/discussion/36968/stroke-from-a-crosschoke\n\nCarotid dissection causing a stroke from a choke: \nhttp://espn.go.com/mma/story/_/id/8660482/sean-entin-life-choke\n\nCarotid dissection causing a stroke that killed the person, from a choke: \n\nhttp://www.mixedmartialarts.com/news/BJJ-student-in-Brazil-dies-days-after-RNC-454558\n\nThe risk of carotid dissection is low, and usually is as a result of an undiagnosed pre-existing condition, but to deny the risk being there is silly. \n\nAlso: yes, there ARE more examples in the cases of fights between untrained individuals (there is an abstract of a study on the management of people with it after an attack involving a choke), but it's not simply a case of poor technique that causes the risk of carotid dissection, it also involves individual anatomy, and there is no real way of telling if a person is more at risk (other than obvious factors such as age). ", 
        "Source for that?", 
        "It was the root cause of the death of Dustin Jenson iirc. ", 
        ">According to a news release, the autopsy indicated the cause of death was a subdural hemorrhage, due to blunt force trauma to the head, that was related to an injury approximately a week prior.\n\nYou're making shit up. ", 
        "Or I simply got mixed up. \n\nHere's an example of carotid dissection happening as a result of a choke in jiujitsu. \n\nhttp://www.jiujitsuforums.com/discussion/36968/stroke-from-a-crosschoke\n\n\nAnd here's an example of a death from carotid dissection causing a stroke from a choke in jiujitsu \n\nhttp://www.mixedmartialarts.com/news/BJJ-student-in-Brazil-dies-days-after-RNC-454558\nHere's another example of carotid dissection from a choke causing a stroke: \n\nhttp://espn.go.com/mma/story/_/id/8660482/sean-entin-life-choke", 
        "Saying that \"There is no negative consequences\" is so dumb on many levels. The consequences might not always be serious, but cutting off cerebral blood flow to the point of unconsciousness absolutely has negative effects. If it is considered \"pussy\" to tap out of a rear naked choke before passing out then there is something wrong.\n\n> There **are** no negative consequences.\n\nFTFY", 
        "What are the negative consequences? List them. I feel your qualifier of \"dumb on many levels\" doesn't explain much. You're just having an emotional response to what I said. \n\nAnd I don't know where I ever said its \"pussy\" to tap out. Again you're raging about something unrelated to me. I've tapped out personally countless times. At least a handful daily. Sometimes you have mere seconds to tap before you're out though and don't catch it in time. Leading to the two times I've gone out. ", 
        "Really? you don't know enough about how the body works to know that cutting off circulation to the brain is bad for you? And I was referring to the original article by saying it was \"pussy\" to tap out. I'm not happy McGregor lost, but I would be saying the exact same thing if the roles were reversed, we are talking about health and safety within the sport, not my emotions towards the right.", 
        "Yeah, that's actually \"dumb\" for him to imply that tapping out is weak. \n\nIn reality it's actually the smartest decision to make specially in Conor's position (practically KOed on his feet and then submitted) so no, he's not a pussy for tapping out.", 
        "Where exactly in my comment did I imply that or say that. I was responding to someone that asked if it was dangerous. It isn't. People are so touchy on this subject that its unbelievable. They should step into a gym and open google. ", 
        "Relax, I was making reference to Serra's comments on the article, not yours.", 
        "Man some guy gave me a real hard time a while ago claiming that it does destroy brain cells and can lead to a stroke. I thought he was trolling but he never backed down. \n\nI asked him to source it out and his source even said that through all competitions and practice there have been numerous cases of brain damage. Which idk how credible that was but still basically proved my point I thought considering 5/100000000 applied chokes is pretty good. \n\nStill, I'm glad to see you're speaking sense and not getting down voted ", 
        "I don't think there's evidence that passing out and immediately having the choke released is a great danger, but it's essentially a small stroke. So depriving of brain of oxygen until it shuts off would not be something I'd do simply on principle. Edit: removed a word for clarity.", 
        "The rear-naked choke cuts off blood to the brain, which is why you go out fast. It's never applied long enough for the brain to be deprived of oxygen, no?", 
        "Cutting off blood from the brain does exactly that- deprive the brain of oxygen. When blood, which is carrying oxygen among other things is cut off, the brain uses the small amount of oxygen that is already there, then shuts off.", 
        "damn bro, how dare you gently put my pitchfork down?", 
        "I really like titles like this. You can tell who actually read the article and who didn't. ", 
        "This interview is one of the most Matt Serra things I've heard in a long time.", 
        "Tapping speed for chokes is largely meaningless, as anyone who has trained jiu jitsu could tell you. Once a choke is in, it's in. You can either 1. Tap 2. Wait 5 seconds then tap anyway. Same outcome.", 
        "do you intern at fucking tmz or someshit?  why do you post like this with such misplaced quotes?  I just dont get it.", 
        "It's two different situations, Conor was gassed and gonna get TKOed if he kept trading punches, in round 2 of 5, so he had nothing to gain by refusing to tap, he wasn't going the distance anyway.\n\nHolly was winning on points, in the last minute of round 5 of a title defense, if she could hang on another minute she couldve been saved by the bell like round 2 and maybe win by decision. So trying to get out of the choke by any means necessary was the right move, she probably was out after trying to flip Miesha and couldn't intelligibly tap anyway.\n\nHow is it people don't get this? Conor wasn't a bitch for tapping, he had nothing to gain there, and Holly wasn't dumb for not tapping, she had everything to lose there.", 
        "Maybe it's just me, but it kinda looked like Holly tapped during the scramble, then went to sleep \"punching\" as everyone saw. ", 
        "it's possible, I haven't re-watched it since the fight but just from a logical standpoint I can see why she wouldn't, she might still be champ if she hung on another minute so it was worth trying anything to get out of that.", 
        "Yeah, what you said makes sense and it isn't a knock on her at all. Just figured I'd point it out but I haven't seen anyone else bring it up so I could be wrong.", 
        "He should of took the TKO like a man.", 
        "Like a woman.", 
        "eh, then he would have to go to the hospital and would miss the post fight press conference opportunity to damage control his loss. Better to get choked out than get concussed and lose 6-12 months off your career, this way he can fight a 3rd time before Aldo is even fully recovered from their fight.", 
        "most bro response ever", 
        "You are far too reasonable to be posting on /r/MMA", 
        "He wasnt a bitch, just a dude who should have spent more time learning martial arts instead of touching noodles in the park.", 
        "You do realize that alot of fighters use those pool noodles in training right? ", 
        "> It's two different situations, Conor was gassed and gonna get TKOed if he kept trading punches, in round 2 of 5, so he had nothing to gain by refusing to tap, he wasn't going the distance anyway.\n\ni think you are 100% right about that but all we have heard about Connor is how supremely confident he is. his shit talk isn't shit talk it is just confidence etc. Given that he is being portrayed as the most confident person to put on a pair of gloves it doesn't fit the narrative very well that he was gassed, saw no way out, and tapped. ", 
        "Sounds like you fell victim to OP's shitty click-bait title. Serra isn't calling Conor a dumb fucker for anything that happened during the fight; It's in response to Conor mocking Nate for teaching jiu-jitsu to kids.", 
        "That's meathead logic. There's nothing to be gained by cutting off oxygen supply to your brain, even briefly.", 
        "Nothing to lose either. So he's a pussy.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You don't breathe with your brain.", 
        "Read the article. The title is pure clickbait. Which is kind of stupid, cause poeple will just go off the title and not even click it, so why put headlines like this? I wouldn't doubt that he's an intern for TMZ.", 
        "I lost what little respect I had left for Matt Serra after his \"good, fuck 'em\" reaction to seeing Anderson shatter his leg. Completely classless and shows what kind of a person he really is (scummy). And this is to say nothing about all the crap he talked about GSP while disparaging all French and French Canadians. ", 
        "What did he say about Frenchs and French Canadians?", 
        "I thought he didn't realise at the time that he'd broken his leg? Maybe he did, if so, that's mean", 
        "He later said that he didn't realize he was the one that said it, and then said he didn't know Anderson was badly injured until the next day. But they were showing replays of the injury almost immediately after it happened. Sounds like he was just doing damage control. \n\nLink: http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2014/1/7/5283110/ufc-168-matt-serra-admits-good-f-him-after-anderson-silva-broken-leg-chris-weidman", 
        "They are fighters so.... you do realize that UFC fighters are not neckbeards lime most of this sub.", 
        "He didn't call Conor a dumb fucker for tapping, the title is clickbait.", 
        "But he DID say he shouldn't have tapped and would have went out.\n\n> All the shit you talked, take a nap, man. It's not like your arm was about to break.\n\n", 
        "I think Matt was trying to say that Conor didn't even try to fight off the choke. Holly tried to peel Miesha's hand off, but Miesha had it way behind her (Holly's) head she couldn't. Holly didn't stop fighting for a second before going out. Conor didn't even try fighting off the choke.", 
        "If you are on your belly facing a RNC, there is basically nothing you can do. It's a little different from Holm in that sense. ", 
        "Especially with a legit black belt on your back. ", 
        "If you train BJJ enough, you know when you should tap. Going out all the time is not a good idea. It was a good tap, everyone, even new fans knew it was over.", 
        "Holly even fought one off successfully in the second round too. ", 
        "Conor was badly rocked before it went to the ground, Holly wasn't.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Look at this fat fuck,never stepped a foot in a mma gym in his life.", 
        "https://www.instagram.com/p/BCyFsU1ihmq/?taken-by=chrisweidmanufc", 
        "On the other hand Conor wasn't rocked badly enough to not consider tapping.  I honestly think that Holly being not rocked and completely aware of the situation she was in when she went down makes it more impressive because she consciously CHOSE to fight off the choke. Conor was badly rocked and still tapped almost immediately to prevent a nap. ", 
        "He was sightly stunned, If he was that rocked he would of been tko'd\n", 
        "Isnt stunned and rocked the same? Anyways Nate could have kept ground and pounding and got the tko but decided it was easier to get the choke", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "For most people stunned and rocked are the same thing.  Connor was in desperation mode when he went to the ground.  He and Holly were in different situations when it went to the ground but the result was similar.\n\nThe idiot-meathead mentality saying tapping is a weak move is fucking stupid.", 
        "Read the actual article. Then comment.", 
        "God i love this argument. Its like my morning coffee, i log on just to find this exact point and then and only then can i continue my day.", 
        "Conor  went to the ground know what was most likely to happen. He was dazed. Dazed and done. ", 
        "This. He was also obviously exhausted and facing a man who's legendary for superhuman endurance and pushing a brutal pace in his fights. McGregor was in  dire straights when he shot that takedown Nate overwhelming him in the grappling and locking in the choke was just the coup de grace. ", 
        "Not to mention that there was was no way that he was getting out of it. Nate had that choke tight and he is far better on the ground than Miesha. Conor had no chance to escape, Holly did. ", 
        "Nate's hand was on top of the head, not behind it. Conor could have peeled the hand off the top of his head and then he would just have to worry about short choke. Easy to say when I'm not getting punched, but Meisha's choke was past the point of no return and Diaz's wasn't. ", 
        "Miesha's was much more secure than Nate's at the time of tapping, Nate's rear hand wasn't even grabbing his own bicep/back of Mcgregor's head. It was on the top of Conor's head. Difference was McGregor was flattened out, Holm wasn't. And yes the \"there's honor in not tapping\" thing is fucking retarded.\n\nEDIT: Holm* not Miesha wasn't flattened", 
        "Dude Holly got locked the fuck up completely, she couldn't even get her arms around to grab meishas cause of the body lock Tate had on her. ", 
        "At the end it was locked, but before that she escaped the choke a few times. ", 
        "Threads like this make me wonder if they televised different versions of the fight or if some people's memory is really that awful.  ", 
        "It could be my memory failing me, but if i recall correctly, Meisha had   the choke \"sunk\" some point before the fight was actually finished and holly managed to escape from it. For Conor's fight though, there was no way he was going to escape from Nate. ", 
        "Yeah I think I remember what you are talking about. I don't recall that one as well (there's my bad memory now). But she sure as hell had that last one locked in like a bowss. ", 
        "Meisha had her hooks / legs crossed though, if Holly fought fire with fire she may have got out.  Unlikely though.", 
        "Not a chance", 
        "IIRC trying to throw Miesha over the top actually tightened the choke", 
        "It was the right move. It just didn't work.", 
        "I thought Matt was just calling Conor a dumb fucker because of the shit he talked about Nate teaching BJJ to kids, not about the tapping.", 
        "People in this thread obviously didnt listen to the audio, he says he respects Holly for taking the nap because she always believed she was getting out the choke. \"She didnt choose to go to sleep she just didnt even consider tapping\" because she thought she could get out. ", 
        "He did tap pretty damn fast. ", 
        "Panic tap.  Or he had a poo in the chute and didn't want to destroy his image by browning his reeboks on PPV.", 
        "Lol. Wtf is a panic tap when you're in an RNC? When you're in an RNC and you know it's tight it's done. There is no panic tap there. It's not like tapping to a half extended armbar or tapping to claustrophobia under a poorly executed darce. Once it's under the chin it's under the chin and you're done. No point in taking a nap for it. ", 
        "Connor didn't tap early, he was fucking done and he knew it.  ", 
        "Should of took the TKO like a man, instead of looking for the tapm", 
        "bad business move for him to take a TKO.  \"master of knowledge\" LOL.\n\nconor mcgregor gains \"master_of_knowledge's\" respect as a man by taking the TKO, instead of being more marketable to the casuals by taking the submission.", 
        "Duh... no shit. ", 
        "How is it manly to get TKO'd?  Does this apply to female fighters??", 
        "He showed cowardice.", 
        "He showed intelligence.", 
        "No he didnt. He was done and a puss.", 
        "Says the keyboard warrior who never had a fight or anything even remotely close to a physical altercation.\n\nThen again I wouldn't be surprised if you had some serious brain damage from \"taking the KO's like a man\"", 
        "Sure, I have, because I'm not a pussy like you.\n\n\nWhat male hasn't been in a fight or 2...", 
        "World of Warcraft and Call of Duty doesn't count you loser", 
        "So every fighter that has ever given their back is a pussy? \n\n And exactly, he was done, he knew he couldn't take the shots so he rolled over.  It's instinctual and why take any more shots to the head than you need to?  Being a \"man\"  doesn't getting you anywhere and it can shorten your career.  \n\nHave you ever been in that position? You sure you aren't a pussy?", 
        "Lol. Stop projecting your pussiness.", 
        "He didn't 'look for the tap'...he was desperately looking to survive when he took Nate to the ground.  Once Nate had him there was no getting out of that position for Conor, he was done.  The idea that you're a man because you let yourself be choked unconscious instead of tap is laughably stupid.", 
        "Nah, he's just a pussy ass bitch that was looking not to have a KO on his record.", 
        "and Master of Knowledge is calling a professional fighter a Pussy again, while sitting in his mom's basement while his neck beard grows wildly out of control.", 
        "Lol. Funny coming from a pathetic poster like you. \n\nI guarantee I make more money and have crushed way more pussy than you..", 
        "LOL", 
        "Your post history shows how pathetic and ignorant you really are..", 
        "Exactly. He was on his stomach, flattened out, with one of the best jiu jitsu guys in MMA on his back. That fight was over when he slipped his arm under his chin.", 
        "100% of the people saying that McG tapped early have never been in a rear naked choke. There's a point at which resisting becomes pointless. When it's in, it's in, especially with a black belt such as Nate Diaz.", 
        "Not saying he was wrong for tapping but it was a quick tap. I've been RNC and even the tightest grip where your head feels like its popping off doesn't cause that quick of a tap. You muscle it out for a few seconds flexing your neck trying to outlast before giving up. \n\nConor was looking for a way out. He had given up at that point which shouldn't be held against him. The fight was over the instant Nate mounted him because Conor was dazed and exhausted. ", 
        "you've never been in a RNC after being rocked and being completely winded in your life so don't act like you have.  and you definitely haven't against a high level blackbelt.  you aren't fighting a RNC when you're gasping for air and you're been rocked.\n\nyes, Conor was looking for a way out as soon as he shot.   he was defeated", 
        ">You muscle it out for a few seconds flexing your neck trying to outlast before giving up.\n\nSure, but don't see a point to Conor doing this.  We all knew the score.  ", 
        "Like I said. There was no reason for him to but there is no denying it was a quick tap either. He was looking for a way out like AJ does many times. ", 
        "Serra is such a fantastic swearer", 
        "Misleading title, he was addressing McGregor making fun of Nate teaching kids Jew Jitsu.\n\n>\"Don't get me wrong, I enjoy Conor McGregor, but the shit where he went in on Nate about teaching the kids jiu-jitsu, now look, it's one thing to be witty and this and that, but now you're writing some sh*t, trying to be clever...you know what? You start crossing lines and your karma is not good, either. You start making fun of the guys teaching jiu-jitsu classes...he could be out in the hood doing dirty sh*t, but he's in there teaching kids martial arts, you dumb f*cker. How dare you. That's f*cking stupid. You want to make your money, make your money, but that's stupid.\n\n\n>That annoyed me, and I love the Diaz brothers, so when he (Nate Diaz) f*cking lit him up, when he started landing, [laughs] I was going nuts. My oldest child does an impersonation of me-I was going ballistic at my in-laws. I was going nuts.\"\n\nEdit: I just noticed it, and i'm not fixing it.", 
        "Hey Matt ur fatt.", 
        "LOLLLL", 
        "So is Cormier. Your point?", 
        "Haha are you serious? He's old but have you seen him he's ripped for an old man.", 
        "Hey plan ur a stan.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "On JRE, he said he's on TRT. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "[Ya, dude.](http://i.imgur.com/lR3ExOn.gifv) [He's really out of shape](http://i.imgur.com/Xayt1id.jpg)", 
        "It looks like he's gone into perma-bulking mode.", 
        "All dat pasta and gabagool", 
        "I must be a total pussy because I've tapped out to chokes probably 100s of times.  In fact, I can think of no situation where I would think it was better to pass out than tap personally.  But that's just me being a pussy and thinking about the health of my brain and what not.  ", 
        "You should read the entire article.\n", 
        "Anyone who has either gone out or put someone out via choke understands that Serra, Dos Anjos, and Aldo are being assholes. Very few things compare to losing seconds (and sometimes minutes) of memory that go missing and will never come back. \n\nOn a related topic, all 3 of them dropped out of fights due to injuries - back, ribs, and foot respectively, and Conor has never done such a thing. The recipient of one of the fastest KOs in UFC history should also not speak ill of the champion he couldn't defeat.", 
        "I've been put out via a choke and choked someone out - no ego thing, just thought I could wriggle and next thing I know I did t know anything.\n\nBut what's the big deal? You're being a bit dramatic aren't you? I can tell you what happened in those lost econds: you were getting choked out like a bitch. /s", 
        "But how many times have you fought for a world title?", 
        "I've been at pretty big BJJ tournaments.  I've done a good 30 and I've won some of the biggest ones.  I've never had to tap though, so I can't say a 100% that at the last moment I wouldn't get flooded with ego and not tap.\n\nI have broken a guys arm before that didn't tap in the finals.  I had 0 hesitation in doing it, he knew the risks, I am angry I had to though.  But knowing that especially in a big match how little hesitation I did have makes me more likely to tap if I were on the other end.  Refs at BJJ tournaments aren't Big John either, you're gonna trust them with your life?\n\nI get it, BJJ tournaments aren't on the same level.  It can kinda feel the same though.  You put 100s of hours of extra training in for it, there's plenty of people to disappoint, there's 100s of people watching you.  ", 
        "Have those fights been at the highest level in a fighting organisation or in a gym with a bunch of your team mates?\n\nIf I'm getting paid a solid mil then I'm going to sleep. It's not over til it's over.", 
        "Spoken like someone who has never actually experienced any of this. ", 
        "I get choked out day-day-out at BJJ, I've tapped countless times, but if I was in the main event of a one million dollar pay cheque then I'd fight out to the end.", 
        "A.  it's not a fight, it's a sport.  People who don't tap and force someone else to hurt them are pieces of shit in my mind\n\nB. that's stupid", 
        "Helio Gracie had his shoulder broken by Kimura, Jacare had his arm broken by Roger Gracie (and won), Tate had her arm dislocated by Rousey, Holm went out punching the air, McGregor tapped out like it was open mat on Sunday afternoon. \n\nWhen the steaks (that may or may not be for breakfast) are high, people don't give up. Like Serra said, I can understand preserving your limbs, and I can understand tapping on a lower card fight or in a small organisation etc., but when the whole world is watching and you could just go out...well...it's just my opinion but look at what everyone is saying 'he took the loss like a champ but he still tapped like a bitch'.", 
        "I dunno, sounds like a real problem with low self esteem if you have to get choked out just to feel manly.  Also Jacare thing is a little different considering he didn't tap to win, which is different than not tapping to lose.  Helio not tapping is a perfect example of someone being too egotistic and too much of an ass to tap, so he just forces someone to injure him instead. ", 
        "Then take it from Matt Serra, Matt Matrione, RDA, and Paige -- all of who have said in the past week that it's better to sleep than tap to a choke.", 
        "All people who have tapped?", 
        "They all tapped during chokes?  Interesting", 
        "I don't think Matt Serra has tapped to a choke in mma, if so I don't remember seeing it. He clarified that you should tap to prevent potential joint injuries.\n\nI don't strongly agree with him or disagree, but he's not really being hypocritical", 
        "The voice of experience, ladies and gents. A true warrior right here.", 
        "did you say that you would rather die to a choke than be tapped out? yea, didn't think so. ", 
        "Did you also call him out when he said he'd cut Jose's head off and drag it through the streets of Brasil? Did you call him out when he said behead Denis Siver and present it to Dana and Lorenzo?", 
        "Exactly. McGregor even tapped twice, what a little girl.", 
        "I'm glad he wised up. This \"jesus didn't tap\" mentality is cancer.", 
        "Right. The only message here is don't write checks your neck can't cash. ", 
        "exactly. it has nothing to do with self preservation, more power to you for saving brain cells! Just don't falsely claim you would rather die than tap...then immediately tap to a choke.", 
        "LOL that title is so misleading. He would've just like to have seen McGregor put as much effort as Holm in defending the choke (or going out), because of all the trash McGregor was talking. The title is insinuating something much different. ", 
        "Going to sleep is retarded when you don't have to and can clearly see you are in a position where you know you're beat. ", 
        "But you don't know you're beat until you tap. Conor was done, but in general rncs take some effort and people are scared to blow their arms out so there's always a chance. ", 
        "What? You don't know your beat unless you tap? That makes no sense. You tap because you are been beat. Diaz was on his back, conor was exhausted and knew he was done. Not tapping out is stupid because getting choked out is cutting off air supply to your brain. Conor knew he was done so tapping out is the correct thing to do", 
        "Says team macgreggor", 
        "Says someone who isn't a big fan of potential brain damage.\n\nAlso McGregor* it literally says it beside my name.", 
        "Of course Conor doesn't have an issue against someone who teaches martial arts to kids, you'd have to be a dumb fucker to think that.", 
        "Watch it, you'll get down voted to hell for actually getting the quite simple joke Conor was making about Nate being a fake gangster.", 
        "But that's not nearly as exciting for me to get outraged and hate on Conor about.", 
        "Matt Serra is right there is no code, Stephie Haynes left all moral ethics out when she titled that article.", 
        "Well, it's pretty obvious Conor writes and rehearses his trash talking", 
        "The tapping thing to me is whatever, but conor deserves all the shit he's getting. Part of the game as he's fond of saying. He cashes them big cheques on the real pride of others so I'm sure he's not too phased by the shit he's copping. Had to expect it. ", 
        "I think I understand Serra... Forget everything about the fight... \nConnor was making fun about something that is no fun at all. \nIt's sad he thinks teaching poor kids JJ is a joke.", 
        "Why don't people understand that Conor was not attacking kids Jiu-Jitsu classes but that he was making fun of Nate's image?", 
        "A lot of people aren't bright enough to read past the words people are using to hear what they're saying.", 
        "Because that's equally moronic so no one wastes their time differentiating the two. ", 
        "It was pretty cringe-worthy though. I mean if anything teaching kids jiujitsu humanizes Nate and just makes connor look like an asshole for making fun of that. ", 
        "You're right about Conor's intentions. He just got extremely condescending throughout the buildup to the fight and it caused that comment seem like it something it wasn't.", 
        "He was also making fun of Nate teaching kids Jiu Jitsu because he is making extra money outside of the fight game. Conor said he didn't need to teach classes for money because his checks are large, called Nate broke etc", 
        "Why don't people understand that Conor's shit talking isn't cute to everyone? (me included) And we're entitled to our own opinions on shit, including what we consider to be crossing the line", 
        "I don't give a shit if it offended you just be offended by the right context.", 
        "Did I say I was offended? Calm down, I understood what Conor was getting at, obviously he's not shitting on kids BJJ, if you think that's what he meant you're a complete moron, I just think there is a line when it comes to promoting fights and he isn't afraid to cross it ever, which FINE do whatever you want but there are consequence when you act like a dick, whether it's to promote a fight or not", 
        "All I'm saying that BJJ people need to stop getting offended by thinking that Conor's quote was an attack on them.", 
        "Ok well I'm not one of those people so jog on", 
        "Don't tell me what to do motherfucker. ", 
        "ok bro, my bad", 
        "It's just poor sportsmanship, flat out. You can't say words don't matter when Conor and his fans use them before and after a fight if he wins, but then words suddenly do matter if his opponent or their fans use them when he loses.\n\nWhen you're a poor winner, don't expect the world to be any different when you lose.", 
        "I'm with you, I hate to generalize, but I don't know of another fighters fan base that actively goes on videos of fighters they've beaten and talks shit about them in the comments section (I'm speaking specifically about YouTube videos), I mean at least with the same frequency of Conor's, go pull up a video of Dustin Poirer and you'll find at least 3-5 dickheads still calling him \"Peahead\" or \"Hillbilly\"; they deserve all the salt they're getting it's just how it works ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        " *doesn't", 
        "Yeah but even that was dumb. The guy never claimed to be gangster. Do the Diaz' mean mug and act hard? Yeah. Do they have a reason to believe they're hard? Fucking right.   ", 
        "Some people would find that upsetting/annoying because they have a love for martial arts and the fact that Nate is putting himself out there to teach it whilst being a fighter and getting mocked for his 'image' is kind of stupid. \n", 
        "Again, it's more to rile him up and get the promotion going. Conor has thought classes before on MMA. Back in 2011 he was in my town and gave really good insight into his style. Did a good training session with us all too. It would be very two faced of him to actually mean to make fun of someones image for teaching people MMA. ", 
        "Was it nice and flowy?", 
        "I'm more upset at what he said about elderly cyclists. ", 
        "Yeah, the stupid kids haven't paid their dues. The elderly cyclists deserve more respect. ", 
        "What did he say about elderly cyclists? ", 
        "And it didn't even hurt his tough guy image. The most gangster thing you can do is give back to the youth. Tupac even said that", 
        "Well I guess it's pretty relevant that Tupac wasn't a real gangster, then", 
        "lol", 
        "Conor said a lot of shit. Conor oversold his position.  Prior to this fight he talked about fighters not being Martial Artist. This fight he talked about how wealthy he is.", 
        "That is what he should do though. He should say that he could be the champion of the heavyweight division. He should say that he has the best ground game in the ufc and could out-box mayweather. He was trying to create the image that he was unstoppable and the hype he created around him is insane. The ppv numbers don't lie.", 
        "He said things that were hyperbole, borderline facts.  ", 
        "Conor just seems 100% business at this point in his career. Everything is motivated by the prospect of financial gain. He knew the fight was a loss, and the damage was done to his hype train, so he chose to let himself get submitted rather than give it all he had. If you look at his earlier interviews he actually seems like a fanatic about fighting itself, but ever since he made that first 60K on a fight he's been chasing dollar signs. I find it hard to even be a fan of him now since he's essentially a promoter with a good left straight.", 
        "Which is smart, you could say he shot the takedown to avoid getting KOed simply so he wouldn't lose time off his career from a concussion. By doing that he got to defend himself in the post fight media instead of going to the hospital, and gets to keep training and fight again sooner.", 
        "yeah totally, he's just setting Nate up for the rematch so he can make even more money and mislead Nate into thinking he can beat him, he's such a genius", 
        "Getting choked out by a tired female fighter in round 5, not being rocked, and potentially winning the fight vs. getting choked out by a boxer with excellent BJJ in round 2 after being rocked and already exhausted. ", 
        "In summation: Holm went out like a champ, McGregor went out like a little bitch.", 
        "Educate me, wise one. Everyone who taps is a bitch? Or just this one guy?", 
        "nothing wrong with being a bitch. Conor quit, holly didn't.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qCJTzOXOjsI&app=desktop\n\nMcGregor went out like a bitch, seriously. Nothing wrong with it, just accept it.", 
        "Serra has never been the sharpest tool in the shed. ", 
        "What has Matt Serra ever done to garner a respected opinion? He is Buster Douglas of mma. ", 
        "I stopped being a Connor fan the moment he punched Nate's hand during that presser. Fuck that. ", 
        "Hey Matt, Conor's won twice as many title fights than you in half the fights and a third as long of a career", 
        "one title fight is 2x more than 1? what kind of fuckin logic is this shit \n\nbtw matt serra had 18 fights mcgregor has 22", 
        "did you forget the Mendes fight was also a title fight?", 
        "in the loosest sense of the word it was a title fight", 
        "I think he is considering the sham interim belt as a title fight.", 
        "When you go to sleep instead of tapping,  you tell your opponent.... you didn't beat me,  you caught me.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What is it with people resorting to citing income? What does that have to do with Conor getting on his chest and asking to be choked?", 
        "I see a group of people here that just want to be right and make silly arguments. ", 
        "It was a smart move. He was getting outclassed and did it to protect his image and avoid being knocked out.", 
        "Yea so that means he's absolved from all criticism because he's rich? I don't even agree with Serra but that's a stupid way to think. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Wow you guys really need to stop hating so much on others and worry about what you're doing with yourselves. It's obvious there is a lot of envy in this subreddit for Conor McGreggor if you're going to try and argue that the man is stupid.", 
        "Nobody is arguing that he's stupid, their arguing that your comment is stupid.  ", 
        "That's even dummer", 
        "Dummer?", 
        "I smoke a lot of weed ", 
        "Nothing wrong with that", 
        "So if you make a lot of money you aren't dumb? Again I don't agree with Serra but that doesn't make any sense. ", 
        "I see your reasoning. Yes, money doesn't make a person smarter. However he earned that money for a reason. Is Conor above criticism? No. Is it it appropriate for Serra to use this kind of language to describe other athletes while out of competition himself? No. But that's Serra's personality to swear and be rude being a New Yorker/New Jersey guy so whatever. I don't care for the things Jon Jones says either.", 
        "The interview just ended, these are the important points:\n\n- 4 fights deal\n- Every fight is guaranteed 6 figures\n- He's going to be a comentator for Bellator Kickboxing", 
        "If they continue to offer deals like this we could be seeing a shift in power over the next 5-10 years.", 
        "6 figures? Every fight? Someone call the cops!", 
        "plus hes getting money for sponsors. \n\nUFC is really inviting competition with the reebok deal, its just so lucrative for these guys to go to bellator. ", 
        "This is awesome. I like the guy a lot and feel he has been getting the short end of the stick.", 
        "Damn thats beast. Good for him ", 
        "Happy for him but I can't see him being a worthwhile color guy on a broadcast, particularly for kickboxing.", 
        "Good for him.  Wow.  Viacom is opening up their wallets.", 
        "> Every fight is guaranteed 6 figures\n\nWow. Seriously??\n\nI mean... seriously?", 
        "That's what I like! Honestly while he was on TUF they portrayed him like such a doofus, to the point when he was on the Mma hour I was surprised about how eloquent he sounded. I think commentating would be a great post fight gig for him. ", 
        "i bet the no-reebok aspect will allow him to get some good sponsorship money too.", 
        "For sure going to watch kickboxing with Matt commentating. ", 
        "How does Bellator manage to stay profitable with all these huge signings?  Do many people watch Bellator, or is it literally Viacom knowingly pumping money into a sinkhole with the hopes that it'll eventually become profitable in the long-term?", 
        "who knows. maybe they are profitable and just pocketing a little less of the profit than the UFC.    \nI know they catch a lot of shit for their side show match ups (kimbo v. dada) but they probably bring in some big numbers for bellator.", 
        "I could see them keeping it going as long as it can break even or come close to it, they don't need to actually make money for the brand to have significant value. if it does decent numbers in a target demographic that is good for spike considering most of their shows suck shit. more viewers overall adds value to the network. bellator shows do pretty good and are basically the most popular shows on spike.", 
        "> or is it literally Viacom knowingly pumping money into a sinkhole with the hopes that it'll eventually become profitable in the long-term?\n\nThat is called building a business. The UFC did the same thing.", 
        "> Every fight is guaranteed 6 figures\n\nWell damn", 
        "No offence Meathead fans, but what does he know about kickboxing?", 
        "What is there to know that he doesn't? Punches, kicks, clinches... all things he's been trained to do. As for the history of kickboxing, it's not that hard to learn, just read Wikipedia and watch some old videos.", 
        "prob just what he's learned training, def doesn't have kickboxing specific skill or experience.", 
        "I cannot tell if these are serious comments or not but as a MMA fighter he has plenty of kickboxing specific experience and training.\n\nYou don't need to have had bouts to have specific experience. I'm sure he has trained 100's of hours of straight kickboxing. Add the fact that he is in a gym with a guy like Henri Hooft? I'm sure he is more than knowledgeable to handle the color duties and do very well.", 
        "He trains under Henri Hooft, a highly respected kickboxing trainer.  You also don't have to be a world class fighter in a given martial art to be able to commentate on it.", 
        "What does Mike Goldberg know about mma? ", 
        "Shrekt", 
        "exactly, pretty sure Goldie had done mostly Hockey up to starting with UFC ", 
        "he got in super early before they could get anyone else and he became part of the brand. if the UFC went looking for someone now they would never hire another person like Goldberg", 
        "Yeah they'd get experts like John Anik or John Gooden... wait a sec...", 
        "I like Gooden(the last UFC card in London aside) but Anik is awful as a commentator.", 
        "Awful is a mean way to say it. Anik needs to loosen up and let himself just love the sport and what he does. I'm not sure how much of an MMA fan he was before this gig. Does anyone know?", 
        "I like him when he does studio stuff, but to me, he's just not suited to be a commentator.\n\nEdit: He did host a show on ESPN called \"MMA Live\" before joining the UFC, for what it's worth.", 
        "John Gooden seems really knowledgeable though when it comes to grappling. He sometimes takes the role of the color when he commentates with Hardy. ", 
        "Goldie wouldn't be my first choice either, but he got involved early and at this point he's part of the furniture. He grows on you - like mold. Having said that, I would probably prefer it if, say, Dan Hardy replaced him.", 
        "It was more of a joke. I'd miss Goldies commentary if he left ", 
        "Dan Hardy is color. Goldie is play-by-play.", 
        "Do you doubt that Hardy, a high-level fighter, could do a better job of describing what is happening play-by-play in an MMA fight?", 
        "Play-by-play guys job is more akin to auctioneer.", 
        "Yes.  Color commentary is much, much easier for an athlete to pick up than play-by-play which is usually done by somebody with a broadcasting background/education.", 
        "I fail to see how it would hurt if the guy describing what is going on actually knew what was going on, but perhaps I'm the exception.", 
        "There's a lot more to it than just calling out what happens. Plug the sponsors, fill the silence, research statistics and so on. Rogan said he had to do it once and it was very hard work and he'll never do it again ", 
        "Goldberg is play by play not a color commentator. The color commentator must know about the sport.", 
        "Solid fucking point there", 
        "Mauro and Bas were talking about this on their podcast.  Fight calling has a structure and it only requires one guy to know much about fighting.", 
        "You need to know the terminology, but not deep details.  That is why play by play guys can do so many sports.", 
        "it's actually better if one guy doesn't know a lot, it helps connect with the casual fans.", 
        "This sounds great for Matt, and it seems he wasn't happy with how things were going in the UFC, but I'm surprised they let another biggish name walk.  Not as surprised as if they'd let Overeem walk, but still surprised.", 
        "They were never going to let Overeem walk and Overeem never wanted to walk. That possibility was blown way out of proportion.  \n   \nI do think letting an experienced fighter with NFL athleticism go was a mistake for the UFC. I can see him cleaning out Bellator. Their HW division is full of grade Z athletes. Their best heavyweights are Minakov and Augusto Sakai.", 
        "Mitrione couldn't even beat Kongo.", 
        "Minakov is a straight up beast of a motherfucker, him Vs matt would be a war, someones going home on a stretcher. They should just give matt an instant title shot lol", 
        "I'm a big fan of his but I don't think he has much of a name tbh ", 
        "TUF 10 is still the best rated season iirc.  He's not huge, but he's recognizable to casuals.", 
        "He was recognizable on Tuff for the worst reasons. The season was so popular because 1) The Rashad/Rampage beef was entertaining, and it had Kimbo Slice on the season. They even gave Kimbo an extra life after he lost!", 
        "Yeah, I quite like Meathead from subsequent interviews I've seen, but he came off as a whiney bitch in that season. ", 
        "Fair", 
        "Bellator seems to be going for former spike tv guys, like leben and Kimbo. ", 
        "Leben won't be fighting now with that heart condition", 
        "I think they are going for anyone they can, spike is just a bonus ", 
        "That's what their whole business model is based on... Brand confusion. When UFC's contract came up they wanted big money because they said people tune in to see UFC fighters. Viacom said ehhhhh we think they tune in because they know two guys fight Ina cage on channel 376. Hence Bellator was born. ", 
        "Well, sort of, except Bellator didn't start out on Spike it was around for a few years before Viacom bought it.", 
        "That's an *amazing* deal, I'm genuinely happy he's getting such a good package out of them.", 
        "Sweet. As a big meathead fan, I'm surprised motherfuckers.", 
        ">He's going to be a comentator for Bellator Kickboxing\n\nHe's got a great voice and he's very easy to listen to, a quality that 90% of the commentators don't have, sadly. ", 
        "I was just thinking what a good commentator he'd be after his last mma hour appearance! ", 
        "Because he mentioned he was looking in to doing it?", 
        "Only issue is he stutters a bit ", 
        "Pretty sure he said on that episode he was in town because he went to interview for a commentating type job. Guess it panned out", 
        "He's one of the more well spoken easy to listen to fighters, good move", 
        "I agree, he's pretty articulate in am easy manner. He says dumb things sometimes but he articulates them well in laymen fashion ", 
        "wow nice 6 figures good for him", 
        "Plus sponsorship w/o Reebok", 
        "yeah he might make a few hundred grand per fight + have a gig on the side. fuckin A that is way better than what UFC gave him.", 
        "He's going to be making more than some UFC champions. These types of deals are game changers. I just hope Bellator can be profitable and keep the UFC from monopolizing the sport. ", 
        "Wow, good for him. He should making really good sponsorship money on top of that 6 figures too. And he's got a good personality, so I'm excited to see him as a commentator. \n\nVery happy for him, but I think the best part about this deal, Bendo's deal, and Phil Davis' deal is that it's going to put increased pressure on the UFC to pay their fighters better. I'm sure Coker was the happiest man on the planet when the details of the Reebok deal came out.", 
        "True dat man. This is good. Monopolies without unions suck. Nate Diaz in his pre-conor fight making 20K, wtf lol. That's barely enough for a non-fighter. And he's a star, there must be lots of dudes fighting on Ramen money.\n\nWatching Bellator on Friday nights is looking better and better!", 
        "I remember 3 years ago on this subreddit there was a shitpost about how bad Mitrione was and how he didn't belong in MMA because he didn't take his fitness seriously enough.", 
        "I'm not aware of the details of the reebok deal. Can you please link me to a source that can tell me more? Thanks!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I will be messaging you on [**2016-03-15 20:43:41 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2016-03-15 20:43:41 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4ae6wn/matt_mitrione_just_announced_hes_going_to_bellator/d0zs9ku)\n\n[**CLICK THIS LINK**](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4ae6wn/matt_mitrione_just_announced_hes_going_to_bellator/d0zs9ku]%0A%0ARemindMe!  1 day ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.\n\n^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! d0zs9vf)\n\n_____\n\n|[^([FAQs])](http://www.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^([Custom])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^([Your Reminders])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^([Feedback])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^([Code])](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)\n|-|-|-|-|-|", 
        "**^^^^FUCK ^^^^YOU, ^^^^BOT!**", 
        "Im not going to google it either, but it was something ridiculous tier shit like:\n\n1-5 fights in the UFC = $8,000 per fight\n\n6-10 fights in the UFC = $15,000 per fight\n\n11-16 fights in the UFC =$20,000 per fight\n\n17-25 fights in the UFC = $35,000 per fight\n\n\nThose numbers arent accurate but it was some pretty low bullshit like that.", 
        "I love how your lowball shitty estimate was three times better than reality. Yikes.\n", 
        "Nah, its WAY worse than that.\n\n1-5: $2500\n\n6-10: $5000\n\n11-15: $10000\n\n15-20: $15000\n\n20+: $20000\n\nChallenger: $30000\n\nChamp: $40000", 
        "So, is this what they get from reebok only? Do they have an additional contract with ufc?", 
        "Yeah, that's their sponsorship money. So they have their fight contract, worth normally around 8k to show and another 8k to win for entry level fighters (higher for better fighters), then sponsorship money on top of that. It used to be that they could get as many sponsors as they wanted and make ~6 figures for popular fighters (less for entry levels, but its hard to find any numbers for them), but now the UFC signed an exclusive contract with Reebok. With that they aren't allowed to get any other sponsors and instead get played sponsor money by Reebok according to the scale above.", 
        "To add in some extra context, after the details came out, Schaub claimed that he was making six figures in sponsors per fight, and I'm not even sure if he was ranked. \n\nFurthermore, on the second tier being up to 10 fights and only $5k: That's A LOT of fights in the UFC. And you're basically treated like a sophomore, probably making 1/20 of what you would have in endorsements without the Reebok deal.", 
        "> Schaub claimed \n\nI am afraid I have some bad news for you.", 
        "I think you'd be surprised.\n", 
        "Rogan called him out on this. Shaub showed Rogan the details and apparently Shaub wasn't lying.", 
        "Dana called him out on a national tv show and Schaub showed both Rogan and Callen his tax statements. Schaub definitely wasn't lying cuz he had some decent sponsors too.", 
        "Wow. That is horrendous. UFC fighters should just send back their checks from Reebok as a \"fuck you\". Sad part being that some of them desperately need that $2,500 so it wouldn't even be an option for them.", 
        "The worst thing is that 2500$ has to pay their trainers/coaches, the camp etc too. it's not even money the fighter alone pockets..", 
        "The reebok deal makes it where they can't have any sponsors. In Bellator you can have sponsors. That's what he meant. ", 
        "Not true. They cant wear other sponsors to official UFC events/fight week and during the fight. Plenty of fighters have sponsors outside of Reebok.", 
        "You're right, they can have other sponsors. They just can't wear non-Reebok clothing or accessories during weigh-ins and all of fight week. The problem is not many companies are lining up to pay fighters to wear their brand when no one will see the fighter repping it.", 
        "bruv, you can't even wear jeans in weigh in's remember nate's rebook jeans sweet. Its ridiculous", 
        "> They just can't wear non-Reebok clothing or accessories during weigh-ins and all of fight week. \n\n\nI think they may not even say tnx to their sponsers. it's *literally* a Reebok-only world (except the octagon which has Geico, HD and Cornnuts, corn to the core!\n", 
        "I think the amount of money people think companies will pay for a bellator fighter to have their logo on their banner is being vastly overstated. The reebok deal is shit, but the financial incentive of going to bellator comes from that sweet viacom pay; lets not pretend that bellator guys are absolutely swimming in sponsorship money. ", 
        "See Guillard, Melvin\n\nEveryone talked about all the sweet sponsorship deals he would pick up and then he walked out there repping a local car company and his own management. ", 
        "Not even Dynamic Fasteners?!?! That's a goddamn travesty. Seriously tho, I miss the Dynamic Fastener days.", 
        "Many fighters lost a lot of money in sponsorship.  On top of that, fighters are being forced to where reebok gear, and receive insulting reimbursement for fights and merchandise. ", 
        "Bro are you honestly suggesting that fighters are disappointed with the Reebok deal? Let's be honest, they may have given up $10k-$100k+ in sponsorships per fight, but in return they've been getting sweet Reebok kicks, pro-level Reebok MMA gloves and training gear, plus some awesome $1000-$5000 checks per fight. Sounds pretty AMAZING to me.", 
        "OK I admit it I'm jealous :(", 
        "Not to mention, fighter CAN still wear stuff from other sponsors but they have to pay a very special 'fine' afterwards. It's only for the flashiest of fighters.", 
        "Also, ridicule for wearing that terrible shit", 
        "Are you sure that 6 figures doesn't already count his sponsorship money?", 
        "Nah, I've seen this cat and mouse game play out before. \n\nThe UFC could have kept any of those three guys if they wanted.  They *let* them go.  They only let fighters go if it is a benefit to them. \n\nDo you remember when Jon Fitch got let go?  Yushin Okami?  Rampage?  Tito? \n\n\nHere's the thing.  The UFC is a well oiled machine.  They produce viewership like no other organization can even begin to.  It's not just about what fighters can pull. \n\nThere is a calculation there.  GSP+UFC=maybe $8 million in revenue.  But GSP+Cage Rage=maybe $2 million in revenue.  (just a made up example for illustration)  So the UFC could theoretically pay $7 million and still make money on him.  But if Cage Rage pays him $7 million, then they lose $5 million on the deal.  It's like a cruise ship dropping it's anchor through the bow of a dingy.  The smaller organization will sink. \n\nNow... Phil Davis nor Matt Mitrione really have any (much) pulling power.   They aren't guys that people will talk about around the water cooler.  So the UFC can drive the price up in negotiations, then push them off on a competitor to sink the ship. \n\nBendo actually *is* a draw, and I think the UFC is actually using a different strategy with him.  I think they are going to let him destroy the competition in Bellator, then pay him a large amount of money to come back as a \"super fight\" type of situation.   *Or* Bellator is forced to pay him an unsustainable amount of money and it tanks their operation. \n\nOr another scenario... Ben *loses* to someone, and the UFC says \"See?  We released him because we knew he was on the downside of his career.\".   They almost can't lose. \n\n\nThe other huge problem is that Bellator can't spend money on marketing like the UFC does, so they can't *create* stars like the UFC does.  Will Brooks could be the next Conor McGregor, but he isn't in a vehicle that is capable of giving him that success.  So Bellator is buying fighters that the UFC built.  But once they get on board, there are no matchups for them.  What is the biggest fight for Ben?  Michael Chandler?  ... A guy that only insiders know?   What about Mitrione?   Who does he fight?  Kimbo?   Phil Davis vs Rampage? \n\nSo the situation is that Bellator is paying a price that is higher than the UFC is willing to pay... And they don't have the matchups or the marketing to generate the revenue that the UFC could. \n\nThis is a dangerous game for Bellator.  They need to scale up quickly, or they are going to be so top heavy they implode.  And the UFC will be there to pick up the pieces. ", 
        "Great points. My thinking was that these guys are the tip of the iceberg, but you make great points about the UFC's marketing power and Bellator becoming too top heavy and imploding. Will definitely be interesting to see how this plays out.", 
        "This is only the beginning of the wave of UFC fighters that will be pouring into Bellator thanks to the no sponsors / Reebok deal.", 
        "'Wave'. Let's not kid ourselves, there are fighters who will benefit very much from testing the free agent market and there are fighters who won't (Al Sterling recently anybody?)\n\nThe fact is, none of these organisations care about fighters unless they bring in good money too, and Matt happens to have a decent fanbase+ is a very good heavyweight which is in itself, worth a lot of money already. \n\nNow if people think everyone who wants to go to Bellator from the UFC will get such a good deal they're kidding themselves.", 
        "Al Sterling benefited by testing the free agent market.  He got a much better deal with the ufc as a result.", 
        "Picture a new fighter coming into UFC. He will undoubtedly make the least when it's said and done because of the no sponsors rule so you can't say the opposite.", 
        "If he was a new and upcoming fighter the reality is the UFC is better than every other organisation.\n\n10/10, 2.5k on top of that for just showing up. Call Reebok shit, and I won't disagree but the reality is fighters on the undercard in organisations in Bellator get much less than that. New fighter on Bellator, trying to get sponsors? Good luck. Even their champions don't want to be there, Will Brooks can't wait to gtfo. \n\nThe truth is people like to tout the instances which put down the UFC and make other organisations look good, but at the end of the day they're all the same. Bellator, UFC, whatever- fighters come out with the short end of the stick.", 
        "You are right, Bellator isn't some fighter's paradise compared to the UFC, but no one is saying that. The reason people like fighters signing good deals with Bellator is that it puts pressure on the UFC to increase pay and negotiate more friendly contracts to retain their talent.", 
        "Yep, and I agree too. I think fighters like Rory who want to test the free market will only be helped by other players like Bellator who will absolutely try to get a talent like him.\n\nBut this garbage about fighters leaving the ufc in waves for greener pastures or whatever bugs me because it's simply not like that. \n\nThe reality is, if the ufc wants to keep a fighter enough they will. Can you imagine the kind of contract someone like overreem would have signed, because names like him and Rory they simply can't afford to lose.\n", 
        "What a deal.  Good for him", 
        "Holy shit he got it good", 
        "I wish it wasn't a great deal. Should be pretty standard for a guy at his level. If not slightly low.", 
        "He's 5-5 in his last 10 fights. Not everyone will agree but he was probably on his way to getting cut from the UFC anyways. ", 
        "True... but that is going back 5 years. I don't think anyone is going to take that long a span into account.  More likely they may look at the last 4-5 fights. Now depending on how his challenge goes he could be 4-1 in the last 5. That's less looking like he was going to be cut and more likely he was in the title hunt.", 
        "Heavy weight is pretty shallow they wouldn't cut Mitrione.", 
        "You're probably right. He's also a likeable person from what I heard on the MMA hour. ", 
        "Yep. Just like no one around the world should go hungry.", 
        "Good for them/him.  They really could use a HW with a name that doesn't consistently gas.  Wonder who he'll be up against.", 
        "Perhaps [This guy?](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwie2-bdssLLAhUO-2MKHYieAEAQtwIIHTAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DEFvFeTeDDxo&usg=AFQjCNH_9oIEIVO7HuVXFXHbw7JQ0KtlUA&sig2=ARmSdO2T4tVGlO8Tufi5Wg)", 
        "Keep the freakshow part separated.. give Mitrione someone legit.", 
        "Maybe they do the Kongo rematch.", 
        "I'll give you a hint. It rhymes with Simbo Klice", 
        "I hope not, he might kill Kimbo by accident.", 
        "I mean, if they want their biggest draw to get beat down hilariously again, sure lol", 
        "Dada 5000?", 
        "I hope not.  We haven't even figured out what he tested positive for in his last fight yet, have we?\n\nKimbo gets beat WORSE this time..  ", 
        "Mitrione, is a top 10 HW fighter. Kimbo would die. ", 
        "Kimbo surely would get destroyed again but i don't think Mitrione is top 10.\n\nWerdum, Miocic, Cain, Overeem, Rothwell, Cigano, Arlovski, Barnett, Hunt, Nelson, Mir, Browne and Magomedov are all above him.\n\nShit, i don't even think he can beat Bigfoot Silva.", 
        "God damn hw is such a shit division...I feel like more than half these guys could retire in the next year or so.", 
        "We lack for up-and-comers, when all those legends retire we'll be left with a barren division.  ", 
        "It's full of dad bods with dad strength. I think it's pretty awesome and it has been my inspiration for getting fat. I left out the training part though.", 
        "He already did. The first time.  Now grim reaper kimbo goes around making peoples' organs [fail](https://youtu.be/bJ7LObqTAus).", 
        "I didn't know nyquil was a PED.\n", 
        "It enhances the performance of my Sleep, so yeah.", 
        "You didn't hear? Dada 5000's cardio was found along with 15 IV bags of Lactic acid buried under an abandoned gas tank in Nevada dessert", 
        "Umm... Bimbo Nice?", 
        "He's obviously speaking of Timbo Rice... ", 
        "Oh, so now Jimbo Lice is out of the mix?  Dude cannot get a fight to save his lice.  ", 
        "I assumed \"Dim\" Beau Fleiss. \n\n...this has gone too far.", 
        "Goddamn, I love reddit...", 
        "Nimble Mice", 
        "Nah, I'm pretty sure it's the Korean frontyard wrestler phenom, Kim-Poo Rice \n\n(sorry)", 
        "Noo he's trying to tell us that Tim throws dice.  Now we just need to figure out who this Tim guy is.", 
        "Gringo Spice, the Caucasian sensation. ", 
        "Limbo Slide", 
        "I need to see Mitrione vs Kimbo Part 2, NOW.", 
        "Dude Meathead would eat him alive live a pack of wild dogs going after a lame antelope.  \nThat said, would still watch, I really like Mitrione despite his fuckhead antics on TUF.  \nEdit: Surprised to get downvoted on this. Does anyone love Kimbo *that* much they think Mitrione wouldn't win, or does everyone hate Matt?", 
        "whooooooosssssshhhhhhh", 
        "You're beong downvoted because \"No fucking shit Sherlock\".", 
        "You're not fun.", 
        "I don't know man, Kimbo is \"evolving\" ", 
        "I think you're underestimating Kimbo, in his last fight he knocked out a living legend using just his aura then brought him to the brink of death, just to prove a point.", 
        "*Dada 5000 used Renal Failure, it's depressingly effective.*", 
        "In his confused state he hurt himself ", 
        "IN HELL IN A CELL!", 
        "BUT WHO'S SIDE IS HE ON?!", 
        "Mitrione will have to go through a series of heart exams beforehand if he wants the commission to sanction another fighter to try his luck against Kimbo Slice.", 
        "[Five point exploding heart technique.](http://imgur.com/gallery/CNr1312)", 
        "Kimbo is the MMA [C'thun from WoW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IXa-P2_g7M4)", 
        "lol love that reference. HORDE FTW :)", 
        "Fuck that boss. Bad memories at AQ40", 
        "Kimbo Slice is the true owner of the Death Note. Mitrione has no chance.", 
        "Boss reference.", 
        "Waiting for the inevitable rematch with Kimbo", 
        "Mitrione will be the first man to defeat both Kimbo and Dada. Truly a great feat in modern MMA. ", 
        "Only accomplished by cholesterol ", 
        "In a street fight, at the same time.", 
        "He really could just by circling away from them for a minute or less until both double over from exhaustion and then he head kick ko both with one shot", 
        "Good for him. Matt's a cool motherfucker.", 
        "Good for Matt, and I can see him being the champ in Bellator. UFC just never seemed like a good fit for him and his personality. I personally have come to like the guy a lot and wish him all the best.", 
        "I think Matt has really struggled to evolve, and has always been very gun shy. He rarely pulls the trigger when striking, and I don't think he likes taking risks. Hard to become a champ that way. I do enjoy his personality sometimes though. ", 
        "Excellent point. His greatest wins have come when he can pull the trigger early and often. Recently he's shied away from that but I think the new start in Bellator will help kickstart that aggression.", 
        "I hope so, man. What do you think it is that makes him so tentative in fights? I see it as a combination of his size and lack of confidence in his ability to absorb shots. He's shown that he's pretty good and covering distance quickly and getting inside. his blitz style striking from the outside is nice, but rare from him. If he would use more combos, and let his strikes fly a bit, I think he would be a top HW.", 
        "Yeah I agree with you on his speed. He's a heavyweight that moves more like a LHW or even bigger 185ers. When he puts that speed to use to cover distance and get inside like you said, he finds success. I think more time with his coach Hooft in Florida and some match ups he gets excited for in Bellator could combine to add more spark inside the cage. He certainly has shown flashes of dominance. Potential to be a force in his new home is certainly there, but that natural speed we like from him needs to be a means to inflicting damage.", 
        "> I can see him being the champ in Bellator\n\nIs Minakov still fighting for them?", 
        "Yep, I believe he's still under contract with them.", 
        "He's still their champ. Saying he's fighting would be a stretch. ", 
        "Just waiting for a Dana interview burying Matt like he did with Henderson. \"That meat head didn't last against only two Travis Brown eye pokes! What a quitter,  We don't need him...\"", 
        "Yeah that's most definitely coming from Dana in a day or two, unfortunately. Probably going to find some way to compliment Browne in the process too. Blah.", 
        "I'm only angry about this because it means FRB was actually right when him and Matt were going back and forth about this on twitter...", 
        "Anyone could see this coming though.", 
        "Not necessarily. FRB just throws shit out there. Up until a few days ago, nobody (including Matt) knew whether or not the UFC was going to try to match the offer that Bellator gave him. ", 
        "> the UFC was going to try to match\n\nMatching the offer is interesting to say the least. For example Rampage got an offer from the UFC for PPV points over 500,000 buys. Bellator then matched this even though they are getting nowhere near 500,000 buys ever at the moment so Rampage would get no money. But in the eyes of the court they matched the offer. Wonder how they will account for sponsorhship deal or their lack of.", 
        "And he lands a job commentating Bellator's kickboxing. Good for Meathead.", 
        "Finally we can settle the Tito Ortiz/Matt Mitrione feud!", 
        "I am a huge fan of Mitrione, kinda sad to him leave the UFC tbh. I'll still catch him in Bellator, but I don't follow Bellator as much as I should.", 
        "Good for both parties. Probably gonna beat some guys up. I'll watch.", 
        "More favorable fights for Matt, probably making a little better money in the process.    Happy for him,   he already hit his ceiling in the UFC, unfortunately,  I'm glad he will get to continue his career.", 
        "Good for him", 
        "If bellator is smart, they should establish themselves as the heavyweight central of MMA. Since that is UFC's thinnest division, itll be the easiest to build up and market as the BEST HEAVYWEIGHT division in all of MMA ", 
        "And with the better gloves he will less likely get fingerblasted in the sockets like last time. Sweet!", 
        "Ya dun fucked up UFC\nThis Reebok shit's gotta go. I know its just a part of the problem but its a significant middle finger from the UFC to its fighters.", 
        "I think Matt is easily the champion in Bellator. To be fair, I haven't seen any of their current champ, but nobody else in the division is as good as Matt. Good on him for getting a good deal.", 
        "wtf both of the russians in bellator would be top 5 easy in ufc.. theyd both smash him ..glad he got a good deal but dont talk outta ur ass", 
        "Yeah, I'll admit I'm just talking out of my ass. I'm a big Mitrione fan, so I'm really biased.", 
        "Do they even have a champion now? Vitaly Minakov hasn't fought there since 2014 but is still shown as champ on their site. ", 
        "He's still the champion, it's strange that they haven't stripped him of the title.", 
        "Supposedly he will be returning to defend his Bellator belt in summer. Maybe he fights for Fight Nights before that again. They seem to be happy to give him fights on all of their cards if he wants to.", 
        "That would be great if he defended the title. It would be cool to watch him fight someone in Bellator again.", 
        "Minakov murders him, I doubt he gets past Kharitonov or Kongo either.", 
        "I think he would be able to knock Kongo out, it seems like he goes cross-eyed if someone lands a jab properly anymore and Matt has the power and speed to hit him really cleanly.\n\nNot sure about Minakov, considering how many people have been saying he'll beat Matt pretty easily, I'm really going to check out his career. I don't know much about him, and I definitely should have read up on him before saying Matt could beat him.", 
        "Kongo has been practicing his old mastery of groin strikes with Gracie though, so you never know.", 
        "Please do, he's the best HW in the world outside of the UFC, and he'd be Top 10 if he were.", 
        "Just watched a few highlights and his fight with Volkov. He seems like a really fast and explosive guy with crazy knockout power and a freakish ground game.\n\nHe would definitely be really good in the UFC, but it looks like he gets hit by really aggressive fighters and keeps his chin up. Matt could knock him out if he timed a rush well, but Minakov has great throws that he's stopped rushes with time and time again. If he got Matt to the ground he would win easily, and there would be a big chance he could do that.\n\nNow I really regret not looking him up before, he's like a crazy Fedor with the way he swings to kill his opponents. Especially with his overhand right.", 
        "\"I don't know much about him, and I definitely should have read up on him before saying Matt could beat him.\"\n\n\n**16 MINUTES LATER (YES 16)**\n\n\n\"Just watched a few highlights and his fight with Volkov. He seems like a really fast and explosive guy with crazy knockout power and a freakish ground game.\nHe would definitely be really good in the UFC, but it looks like he gets hit by really aggressive fighters and keeps his chin up. Matt could knock him out if he timed a rush well, but Minakov has great throws that he's stopped rushes with time and time again. If he got Matt to the ground he would win easily, and there would be a big chance he could do that. Now I really regret not looking him up before, he's like a crazy Fedor with the way he swings to kill his opponents. Especially with his overhand right.\"", 
        "Yeah I'm a retard sometimes. I try to prevent it but today I just stopped thinking properly.", 
        "Ha it's ok man I just don't know why you'd type up an in-depth analysis of a fighter's style 16 minutes after saying you'd not seen him fight.", 
        "Yeah, yesterday was a weird day for me.", 
        "Damn I didn't know Kharitinov was in bellator", 
        ">  To be fair, I haven't seen any of their current champ,\n\nIt's honestly a really weird call to make then.", 
        "Bellator takes some of the blame for that, as their heavyweight champ does most of his fighting outside Bellator. Maybe if they booked him to fight occasionally more people would see him fight.", 
        "Yeah how does a comment like that get up voted? Only the last sentence is true.", 
        "Honestly I thought the exact same thing, I have no idea who there champ is but I can't imagine them having someone that mitrione can't beat. I'd love to be proven wrong tho, that would help legitimize bellator.", 
        "Yeah, after looking through my inbox I was kinda surprised to see this at +17. It was a dumb comment to make from me without knowing anything about Minakov.", 
        "The fact that you know nothing about Minakov may or may not be telling, depending on how much you know about other Bellator champs. ", 
        "I don't know much about Bellator to be honest. I only started watching it on the British Invasion card.", 
        "Minakov will give him trouble if he ever fights in Bellator again.", 
        "Kongo already has a win over Mitrione doesn't he", 
        "I would think that Mitrione would probably be able to knock Kongo of today out pretty easily if he can explode inside of Kongo's defense.", 
        "> he can explode inside of Kongo\n\n", 
        "Are we really not doing phrasing anymore?", 
        "Do you want Archer references? Because that is how you get Archer references", 
        ">inside of Kongo", 
        "Was going to say \"but Kongo is old now\" then realized he is only 3yo older that Mitrione and likely on PEDs, so, reconsidered...", 
        "Kongo has 59 fights (mma and kickboxing) to mitriones 14, which is the real story here.  It is work noting that mitrione had an amateur and briefly a professional football career too, so who knows how that compares.", 
        "> It is work noting\n\nThanks for doing it anyways.", 
        "They aren't going to note themselves. ", 
        "This just adds to the motivation for other fighters to test out free agency like they should. Good for him.", 
        "Front row Brian got so much unnecessary shit for once again being right. He probably should be lighting Mitrione up on twitter", 
        "If he hadn't signed yet, he deserved every bit of it", 
        "he said the UFC didn't even give him an offer.\n\nI guess they don't really care since he hasn't beat anyone of note.", 
        "He has lost to anyone of 'note', Rothwell, Schaub, Nelson, Kongo and we can go as far as saying Browne doesn't really count. \nI think this is a great move for him and for Bellator however, saying that is just talking out your ass. ", 
        "losing to Schaub is really impressive. not being able to beat Roy Nelson is very impressive too. what a top fighter.", 
        "He's mediocre at best tbh, his only notable win is Gonzaga. I don't see him beating anyone of note in Bellator either.", 
        "He was winning his last fight until Browne started going Jon Jones on his eye sockets. ", 
        "The UFC offered him an extension.   He chose to get an outside offer,  the UFC declined to match Bellators offer.", 
        "Damn. He didn't get to have his revenge against Ronda's life saver", 
        "I'm liking Bellator signing so many talented known fighters. I don't have Fox Sports 1 (it's about a $15 increase on an already ridiculous $99 Dish bill) so I usually only watch Fight Pass and Fox fights. I do have Spike though so I actually have access to more Bellator than UFC", 
        "Does this mean Bellator is gonna finally sort out what's going on with their heavyweight title? It's coming up on 2 years since Minakov defended the title in Bellator and he's been fighting in Europe (including on a card that was aired on Fight Pass if I recall correctly). If he's not willing to actually come back now, just strip him and run a tourney with Mitrione, Kimbo, Kharitonov, Congo, Lashley, and whatever other warm bodies they can find.", 
        "Dada 5000 in the tournament.  It will be like the first days of ufc where the competitors without tits were a shoe in for the finals because they didn't gas in five minutes", 
        "Oh fuckkkk", 
        "Does that mean he'll become a ghost with his unfinished business?", 
        "I like this. Now I actually have two different companies I can watch and enjoy. It Benson and Matt are on a show, I'm tuning in. ", 
        "he should fight dada 5000 and kimbo on the same night tag team", 
        "I like Meathead. Glad he's making the $$$$", 
        "Good for Mitrione.  He doesn't have the horsepower to compete with the best in the UFC, so he should go where he can make the most money.  I'm happy for him and his family. ", 
        "Bellator is just staging coups.", 
        "Henderson is solid and Mittrione is at the bottom of top ten heavyweights. But Bellators problem remains. They need more than 1, otherwise you end up with freak show fights.", 
        "Coker said by the end of the year he expects their roster to look pretty solid.", 
        "glad to hear it! the feels hurt a bit, though. just a bit.\n\none of the rare guys to start out as a pro in the UFC, would have been cool to see him finish it out there.\n\nhe'll do well in Bellator though, and he deserves the figures other folks have mentioned ITT.", 
        "Excellent, I hope more fighters move over because once they do it will create a far better situation for them moving forward.\n\n", 
        "Awesome! So its really 6 figures + Sponsorship money. \n\nGreat for Meathead", 
        "Guarantee Justin Wren politely calls him out if he can't secure the Kimbo fight he's after. ", 
        "New Bellator Heavywight champ. Grats, Matt!", 
        "Happy for him but I really wanted to see him fight more in the ufc :(", 
        "WAR MEATHEAD.\n\nI hope you become HW Champion.", 
        "meathead vs rampage?\n", 
        "Delighted for him.  Fairplay.", 
        "Hey, get that money meathead!", 
        "Awesome,. Contract aside, I think it's great he's going to be commentating, good news. ", 
        "Do i have to buy a Bellator Fight Coupon", 
        "Bellator is might not have all the best fighters but if they keep signing known talent we might have to start watching more. ", 
        "UFC had the option to match and it looks like they probably would not or didn't want to.  That's a sweet deal for him.", 
        "Bellator is making some good moves signing guys who can fight like Mitrione and ~~Pettis~~ Henderson, but they also came dangerously close to being the first major MMA promotion to have a fighter die in the cage. The Slice/Shamrock, Slice/Dada, Shamrock/Gracie nonsense may be draws for the freakshow qualities, but it is damaging the sport...", 
        "Pettis? What??", 
        "Fuck, I meant, the other one....Benson Henderson...\n\nI guess I just associate the two because Benson is more famous for being on the receiving end of the Showtime kick than anything else (some sarcasm intended)", 
        "Interesting to see how all these free agents will affect the lawsuit against UFC.", 
        "they wont really, the lawsuit was for a point in time and prior, not for the future and eternity.", 
        "I wish this was a big deal but it isn't.", 
        "Holy shit good for him. Wonder how his eye is doing ", 
        "Travis Brownes fingers left a bad taste in his mouth so I don't blame Matt one bit for leaving. This isn't a case where Bellator is getting UFC leftovers, they're getting a solid fighter that can actually get a belt.", 
        "Finally we'll get the rematch we've all been calling for - Mitrione vs Slice II", 
        "Probably a way better deal than most top 15 heavyweights in the UFC ", 
        "Certainly makes Bellator more fun to watch. Mitrione makes for exciting fights, out of the ring shenanigans aside.\n\nReebok deal isn't making UFC any favours. I love how they finally have to pay for being overly greedy. Hopefully this trend continues.", 
        "Damn I'd rather have him in the UFC for a little while longer but good for him I guess.  I wonder if he's including his sponsorship money in that 6 figure estimate or if bellator is paying him insane show money.", 
        "I'll watch him, decent fighter with a fun personality. \n\n", 
        "Good for you meathead! One of the few fighters with the balls to speak what he feels about the ufc. Hope he gets that money. ", 
        "Now they have a legimate opponent for Fedor ", 
        "Aaaaaaand NEW!!!!", 
        "I like this. Quality guys, not quite ufc champion caliber making a change. As long as they don't swipe Rory from the show!", 
        "Good for him!", 
        "Can't wait to see Dana's reaction. I can see the back handed compliment while tearing him apart and calling him a below average fighter who should retire.", 
        "matt said he would take bellators offer to the ufc. if the ufc didnt match then he would sign with bellator. ", 
        "I am happy for him. Best of luck Matt.", 
        "If he walks out with a sponsored eye patch I will lose my shit.", 
        "Good for Matt. Met him at Purdue once and the picture got taken while I was about to say something, so it looks like I'm mean mugging Mitrione.", 
        "Wanderlei, Ramapage, Benson and now Mitrione. Imagine if Rory gets word of the numbers involved in the deal", 
        "I feel like we could see this coming.\n\nProbably a good fit for Matt.", 
        "[waaat?](http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2016/01/18/08/3049577800000578-0-image-a-11_1453104718907.jpg)", 
        "I guess Front Row Brian did know more than Matt. [Matt Mitrione responds to update on his own career from Front Row Brian](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/46hgt2/matt_mitrione_responds_to_update_on_his_own/?submit_url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fmattmitrione%2Fstatus%2F700445029404385281&already_submitted=true&submit_title=).", 
        "As shitty as the UFC HW division is right now, this doesn't feel like much of a loss. Guess we can finally see Cheick Kongo vs Mitrione now.", 
        "I take Mitrione on that match up", 
        "Kongo did beat him up pretty easy last time. But he's also 40 so maybe.", 
        "Whereas Mitrione is a spritely 37!", 
        "Didn't Kongo already beat him?", 
        "Yes lol", 
        "Does this guy strike anybody else as a huge Douche? Like, not to be rude or anything but the guy just seems arrogant for nothing really when they show him talking. I say good for the UFC. ", 
        "Honestly, his mouth wore on me.", 
        "Bellator is gonna take over, good on them.", 
        "Who is he going to fight? Ken Shamrock? Kimbo? C'mon now son.", 
        "ok", 
        "Its definitely a big selling point for them.   \n\nFunny though.", 
        "Mitrione's the kinda guy who would show up to a press conference wearing [Moon Shoes.](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/81HYaGSkfFL._SL1500_.jpg)", 
        "Looks like I'm currently ting to lightweight and cutting half my foot fo so I can rock moon shoes every where. 45 lb cut gonna be a bitch. Hopefully my toes weigh 30", 
        "All I can think of when I here moon shoes is Hal on malcom in the middle jumping to save a cat out of a tree", 
        "I was really sad when I looked those up and max weight was 160 lbs..   I was going to wear them in my office for a day since I normally wear slippers.. see if anyone notices.", 
        "I remember when my feet became too big to wear moon shoes.  That was a sad day, and the best day of my younger sister's life.", 
        "You've found a niche market for adult moon shoes. Go forth and be rich.", 
        "Not sure if you're serious, but they're called Powerisers. I got a pair that I shelved after earning myself 3 scars my first time using them.\n\n[Boing Boing](http://www.amazon.com/Kangaroo-Jumping-Fitness-Exercise-Bouncing/dp/B00M3Y8ZFS/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1458013885&sr=8-1&keywords=poweriser)", 
        "I was joking, but those are hilarious. You should definitely get them out, they'd be great fun. Deadly, but fun.", 
        "Moon Shoes rated for 300 pounds coming to Amazon now.", 
        "First thing that came to my mind when looking them up was how quickly I'd destroy my ACL again.", 
        "This sounds like a delightful train wreck worthy of being on that show Shark Tank.", 
        "Lmfao well played.\n\nBellator must  love the reebok deal honestly.", 
        "I'm sorry but I really liked everything about Bellator the first time I watched it (Kimbo/5000). Loved seeing everyone be able to show their custom shorts/banners. Looks like some UFC fighters are making the switch, I don't blame them", 
        "Trolllllllllll.", 
        "That was your first Bellator card and you like 'everything about it'?\n\nThat was one of the most embarrassing MMA cards to be put on in years.\n\nBellator have put on a lot of legitimate MMA cards, but that was a travesty.", 
        "Besides the Kimbo fight what else was embarrassing?", 
        "Shamrock - Gracie", 
        "People would constantly rag on Strikeforce during its golden era too. Hoping for its demise and failure. To this day they have put on some of the most exciting MMA fights in history.", 
        "I miss Diaz coming out with his Metal Militia hoodie. ", 
        "Metal Mulisha", 
        "/u/EmJay115  It's Metal Mulisha!  Get it right bro.  /u/TheTeflonRon  Nailed 'em.  Tight name too. ", 
        "I find this irrationally hilarious.  He spelled the actual word right but still can't catch a break.  I love reddit's perseverance when it comes to correction.", 
        "It's not just Reddit, it's society in general. Everyone loves to correct. ", 
        "Cool looking fighting shorts can really help a fighter stand out. Venum, for example, always looks good.\nReebok's black and white trunks are just...", 
        "They're gonna look goofy when people look back 10 years from now", 
        "If they'd even just let them pick the colours, have one fighter swap the black out for something else and have the other swap the white for something else. ", 
        "They do.... If you're named Connor McGregor, then you get green ones!", 
        "You have to be in the super heavy weight cheque division to get those. ", 
        "Can't picture some fighters without their trademark shorts, lidell in his blue iceman ones, or silva in the yellow spandex, definitely helped a lot of fighters establish themselves from the pack", 
        "It would have benefited Reebok to make some custom shorts. Like bendo's belt, or cowboy's flag patch. Small customizations would help Reebok in the eyes of the fans. ", 
        "Why are you saying you're sorry?", 
        "Everyone seemed to rag on it, saying it was a joke and whatnot. Sure the last 2 fights were odd but the fights leading up to them were great", 
        "[You can watch all of their last 50 or more main cards on their homepage for free if you want to.](http://bellator.spike.com/videos) As long as it doesn't region block you, that is. Check out all their top FW guys, Michael Page, Michael Chandler, Liam McGreary, Andrey Koreshkov and Marcin Held for a start. Oh and Tamdan McCrory. He's back in the UFC now but watch his fights in Bellator to see why people are so excited to see him out of retirement again.", 
        "You the real MVP!", 
        "Obligatory for a Canadian.", 
        "Didn't I see Herb Dean wearing Nike at UFC McGregor v Diaz? I saw the swoop and I'm wondering how the hell that happened.", 
        "He doesn't work for the UFC.", 
        "Ahhh. I didn't realize UFC had no say. Thanks", 
        "He changed shoes for the conor fight. Ufc prob asked him to", 
        "Yeah, the refs are employed by the NSAC so the UFC can't say shit. Oddly he did get out of his Nikes and put on some Reebok looking shoes in the middle of the event so I wonder what happened there.", 
        "But can't the UFC choose which refs to put on the card?", 
        "He was probably \"kindly' asked to change by Dana and Lorenzo. ", 
        "Australian here. \n\nWhat does throwing shade mean? I've never heard someone say that before.", 
        "I think it's when you indirectly insult someone or something without explicitly naming them but everyone knows what you mean. ", 
        "According to an article from businessinsider.com The term \"throwing shade\" comes from black and Latino gay communities.\n\nSource: [This is where the expression 'throw shade' comes from](http://www.businessinsider.com/where-the-expression-throw-shade-comes-from-2015-3)", 
        "Got me thinking, when we say we're hanging shit on someone, do people from other countries freak out?", 
        "\"throwing shade\" is American slang for disrespecting someone.", 
        "It's definitely not \"disrespecting someone\"\nIt's more like saying or doing something that isn't really vague about being an insult, but you're not just directly calling them out or talking shit to their face. ", 
        "That's true.", 
        "I think it's a regional thing.  I've grown up in Seattle and never heard anyone saying that in the 47 years I've been pooping on this planet.", 
        "From OH, and I've never heard that term used by anyone either. ", 
        "I'm 29 and I only started to hear the term recently as far as a few years ago.  ", 
        "The origin is southern IIRC, and you're right, it's not something that has been in wide use, it's only been a couple of years. It's just one of those sayings that come into vogue for a few years and then just fade away. When I was growing up it was \"dissing\".", 
        "I'm sure it's not. It's a social media thing child. ", 
        "Seattle is wet as hell, you need to see the sun first to be able to \"throw shade\" ", 
        "rofl, great point!", 
        "Making fun of or hating on someone. ", 
        "taking the piss out of.", 
        "Coker got jokes", 
        "Coker's jokers ", 
        "[**@MMAanalytics**](https://twitter.com/MMAanalytics):\n>[2016-03-14 20:34:03 UTC](https://twitter.com/MMAanalytics/status/709477716580380673)\n\n>Bellator signs Mitrione and PR cracks jokes at [#UFC](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23UFC) along the way. [*pic.twitter.com*](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/CdiSOMsUkAEY1Mz.jpg) [^[Imgur]](http://i.imgur.com/752WdmA.jpg)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4af0yl%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "I know it was ridiculous at the time, but in hindsight that whole Mitrione shoe thing was nothing short of pathetic. I mean really, if they had have just ignored it and let him wear his normal shoes, would anyone have noticed? Would we still be talking about it months later? Answer to both is HELL NO. They drew so much negative attention to themselves for something so childish and petty imo did they think people would look at him in his bare feet and be like \"damn I need some nice reeboks\" mindblowing stuff. ", 
        "This is a fantastic low key burn.", 
        "It's not even throwing shade or as you put it; a burn. It's just the sad truth behind how controlled UFC fighters are, UFC burns themselves.", 
        "The joke was about as lowkey as DADA 5000 at an all you can eat BBQ buffet", 
        "DADA has an undefeated 16-0 record against all you can eat BBQ buffets ", 
        "He's known to go the distance, Joe.", 
        "don't forget his legendary 47-0 record in da streetz. ", 
        "And that's only his pro record.  Dada spent years crushing the amateur buffet circuit.", 
        "He had to. He wanted to buffet at the Olympics.", 
        "All those bouts have certainly taken their toll on his cardio though. ", 
        "All of them submission wins. ", 
        "They went out like gangsters though", 
        "He would've had more KOs but a lot of those buffets turn into \"limited time specials\" when they start getting hit", 
        "No", 
        "Well deserved too.  Those buffets had nothing left.", 
        "Lol does Scott Coker live to piss Dana off ", 
        "Powerful Reebukkake.\n\np.s.: Giblert 2015, never forget.", 
        "The UFC is stuffing its pockets and losing fighters for doing so. Is making money on a single sponsorship really worth it? Why agree to a single sponsorship deal for fighters? A handful of companies could provide something better, signing multiple companies to be official sponsors could provide more income and potentially better products and happier fighters, fighters who would not even consider signing elsewhere..", 
        "They are doing it to screw the fighters. This way fighters have to basically rely on them for ALL the money. They also don't want the really popular fighters like Conor/Ronda/Jones etc.. making bank with sponsorships. That's one step closer for those fighters going independent and becoming like boxers.", 
        "How many fighters they lost?\n\nIt's about the usual rate fighters switch over. \n\nMeanwhile Bellators top guys like Will Brooks (arguably they're best home grown talent) say they want out and they get treated like shit and all Bellator cares about is washed out UFC guys.\n\nTamdan McCrory just earned a title shot at Bellator and choose to go to the UFC Instead and be a low top 10 guy.\n\nAlso Bellator just put on the most embarrassing card in the last 5 years, and UFC just put on one of the best.\n\nReebok deal sucks, but the idea that everyone is jumping ship and that Bellator is so much better, is crazy.", 
        "I love competition :)  Bellator needs to exploit the reebok weak link!", 
        "How do you \"throw shade\"?", 
        "Hark! I say unto thee ignominious fetid swine, thou dost not converse verily presently in thine thoroughfare.\n\nOne doth \"lobs gloom\" in which another's character is taken with umbrage in a most open vituperation.\n\nPresently, if one could take one's leave at mine behest, twould be most pleasurable, lest the amassed urbane company should lose footing stumbling upon one's cretinous brow.", 
        "Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire, and fill ...... thy lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost not talk bark a shit.", 
        "Alas muttonheaded simpleton, put forth obtuse inquiries, and thoust most assuredly procure obtuse explication.", 
        "Last week, I bought a new pair of trail runners. I'm a research nut and narrowed it down to two pairs, one of which was made by Reebok. I really liked the Reebok but chose my 2nd favorite just in spite of the UFC. \n\nGuys, I don't want to brag or anything, but I think I single-handedly just changed a lot of lives. ", 
        "Dude left Olympus Mons to be king of Shit Mountain - he's gonna need those shoes.", 
        "Too bad Bellator is a shitshow. ", 
        "For real. It is hard to take a promotion seriously when they put a card with Kimbo/Dada and Shamrock/Gracie headlining in 2016.", 
        "Mitrione will be able to wear those Anacondas on his feet, in a car that spits fire.", 
        "#FACTSONLY ", 
        "Anyone know how long the Rebok deal is for? Can't wait for that shit to end.", 
        "7 years I think?", 
        "*audible groan*", 
        "He should fight kimbo. ", 
        "It's about time Bellator swings on some of the softball pitches they've been ignoring.", 
        "One of the twitter comments says this may be in response to the UFC social media throwing shade on bellator 149. Anyone know what the UFC said?", 
        "ill buy that for a dollar", 
        "Is he required to wear clown shoes when performing at the circus ?", 
        "I feel like the thread title was taken from wshh.com", 
        "That's wonderful. Now stop allowing sideshows like Kimbo/Shamrock, Kimbo/Dada and Shamrock/Gracie take place, lest someone die in the cage and bring the entire sport under intense scrutiny just to sell some fights....", 
        "So... the UFC is still offering more money by a massive amount, but it is insane to me how huge this Reebok deal has been / will be in making fighters consider their options more. The actual contract money is likely a JOKE in comparison. As is the per fight payments. Bellator is likely offering pretty low amounts for that. But if you're willing to work harder, marketing yourself. You can probably make up a lot of that difference with sponsorships.", 
        "It's a joke, chill.", 
        "He talked about it on the MMA hour podcast that the actual dollar amounts of the contract were very good. ", 
        "The money being offered by Bellator is never going to get top fighters to jump ship but you won't have to go too far down the rankings to find guys where it makes sense money-wise. There's got to be a ton of guys making 20 and 20 that are still well-known. If Bellator offers them 50 plus they get their sponsors back that could be a really good deal for both sides. It won't surprise me to see a lot more mid-level and older guys going to Bellator.", 
        "The UFC offers him the chance to make more money, Bellator actually offered more money plus all that sweet sponsorship dough they got fucked out of. Plus wearing shoes that don't suck balls is nice.", 
        "He's getting six figures a fight. Just the contract money alone is probably more than what UFC offered. ", 
        "Fantastic stuff. The Reebok deal was a MASSIVE misstep for the UFC. It also played a huge part in Benson Henderson's departure. ", 
        "\"Winners focus on winning. Losers focus on winners.\" \n\n", 
        "Can we not do the whole \"shade\" thing?  Lets just stand up here and now and say \"No, you millennials have raped the English language enough.\"  Please.", 
        "I gave you an up vote.", 
        "Thanks!", 
        "It sounds stupid and forced and I can't help but imagine the user consciously using that term to try to keep up with current trends.  How fucking impressionable do you have to be to see/hear terms like \"throwing shade\" or \"smoke show\" etc. and start using them without a thought?\n\nPeople can downvote all they want.  It's fucking stupid.  It's as bad as making a forced meme and then forcing that into everything else.", 
        "Doesn't sound stupid or forced to me or any of my friends, who use it pretty regularly.", 
        "Hey, I love the term \"smoke show\".   I heard it in that movie \"Joe Dirt\" and that movie was awesome.", 
        "I'm with you 100%.  They came up with that retarded system for naming celebrities and celebrity couples \"LiLo\", \"ScarJo\", they had to shorten the word \"relationship\" to \"ship\", it's just really stupid and forced.  This whole \"throwing shade\" nonsense is just so, so, so stupid.  At least I'm not the only one out there.  Thanks!", 
        "I've only ever heard ship used as a verb by fanfiction writers meaning they put two characters in a relationship together \n\nAs in \"I ship Lorenzo and Dana\"", 
        "I'm guessin that's related to all that stupid tumblr \"headcanon\" stuff.", 
        "Every generation has their own slang you massive cunt", 
        "Shade is a perfectly cromulent word.", 
        "It's currently promelgating the nation!!", 
        "Mmmmmm indubitably. ", 
        "*shallow and pedantic* ", 
        ">you millennials\n\nSounds like you could use some shade before your next hot flash hits.\n", 
        "Ma niqqa straight on fleek", 
        "And also fight the shittiest competition on the lamest circus act events. ", 
        "Lol, stay butthurt you shill. The Reebok deal is garbage.", 
        "that doesnt make his comment wrong.  THere is a lot of garbage in bellator.", 
        "It's the 2nd best promotion on the planet behind the UFC. Like it or not that makes it impossible to have the \"shittiest competition\". Also, name one freakshow card other than 149, more often than not Bellator put on legitimate cards.", 
        "they have legitimate cards.  but they have a lot of old fighters and fresh young fighters.  UFC still has the better fighters.  I hope bellator can be the best and keep paying everyone fairly.  All I want is all the best fighters under one organization so I dont have to have this argument.\n\nI want the best fighters to fight the best fighters.  I dont want great fighters in 2 organizations unable to fight each other because they are in different organizations", 
        "Bellator is like the WCW of the MMA world.", 
        "If only. I have yet to see a nWo run out of them.", 
        "I don't like the Reebok deal either, but there's a reason that Minakov has been fighting in Russia instead of defending his belt in Bellator.", 
        "I thought it was because they found it difficult to find a match for him given that their HW division is so shallow? The fact that his contract even allows him to fight for other promotions is commendable, could you imagine if the UFC allowed that?", 
        "> I thought it was because they found it difficult to find a match for him given that their HW division is so shallow?\n\nThat's doubtless part of it (though that in and of itself is a pretty big knock on Bellator).  But it probably didn't help that they were paying him $17k/$17k.  Minakov's said that he won't come back unless the pay is right.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Bellator won't ever be what Strikeforce was.", 
        "Bellator better have paid for Dada's medical bills otherwise they can fuck off with their smug attitude.", 
        "Edgy Brahv will be pleased", 
        "Just what I was thinking, this is exactly what he prescribed for her to fix her game. ", 
        "\"She's gotta fall in love with jiu-jitsu. She's gotta be real happy about it, taking pictures with her gi and shit\"\n\nlol. Exactly what Bravo predicted should happen is happening. Powerful Edgy Brah. ", 
        "What are the chances that she heard that a took this picture because of it?", 
        "This title is\u2026uh\u2026retarded", 
        "I imagine Jeff Goldblum saying it. ", 
        "\"Ground game uhh... Finds a way.\"", 
        "BJ has infected JacksonWink with the shaka sign.", 
        "I am sick and tired of these handsome Brazilians.", 
        "I'm a lot better looking than him. Will you also hate me if you see me? Let's not be jealous here.\n\nedit: it's true. i can PM you my picture if you want, i'm very good looking and i'm not saying it to brag, just to make a point.\n\nedit 2: i PM'ed my pic to a few people. the responses are very positive and i appreciate them!", 
        "\"I'm not trying to brag,  just saying I'm much better looking than that handsome guy\"\n\n While making an unnecessary comment. ", 
        "r/iamverygoodlooking anyone? ", 
        "What point are you trying to make exactly?", 
        "> i can PM you my picture if you want\n\nCould I get that picture too?", 
        "Pm me the picture ", 
        "Pm Me then", 
        "Sooo... How was it?", 
        "He didn't send it ", 
        "But... I thought he was really ridiculously good looking?", 
        "He sent it. He's not wrong \n\nhttp://imgur.com/BACvhgR", 
        "I... I don't know how to feel about all this.", 
        "Prepare yourself.  I added a link in the original comment ", 
        "But are you a jiu jitsu black belt and professional athlete who is grappling with Holly Holm? No? Then no one cares.", 
        "We know you know how to google 'Handsome man'. Don't bother.", 
        "Being this cynical is actually quite sad.", 
        "Not as sad as your post history...", 
        "You think writing a comment on reddit about how you are attractive, and wanting to PM people pictures of yourself to random strangers to prove it, isn't sad?", 
        "It's actually one of the saddest things I have ever witnessed on Reddit. \n\nEdit: /u/ergoegthatis [sent me the picture of himself](http://i.imgur.com/xsmtZ5u.jpg)\n\n", 
        "There is a sofa arm rest coming out of the wall.", 
        "This thread has to be one of the most hilarious things in the history of r/mma.", 
        "There's a lot of stuff going on in that picture. ", 
        "Pretty hot", 
        "I try my hardest to keep things positive. But this title is just stupid.", 
        "Cry about it some more and I'll try to change it.", 
        ">try to change title \n\nLol nub. I bet you can't even triple triangle", 
        "it's ok to suck sometimes.", 
        "I know I do.", 
        "I really don't get the \"uh\" at all", 
        "That's because you don't have a sense of humor.", 
        "It's true, I'm an emotionless cyborg. For future reference in my attempts to relate to human feeling, what is the humor of the uh? The post doesn't seem to be a double entendre and the training seems legit, what's the big hysterical value of that sweet sweet uh?", 
        "Making fun of Gracie Barra; its sport BJJ. Example you can't roll until 3 stripe white were as most places you roll first day.", 
        "I train at Ryan Hall's gym and we most certainly did not roll our first day.", 
        "tfw watched 23 BJJ instructional DVD sets and not allowed to roll.", 
        "Title is full retard", 
        "White belt status confirmed. ", 
        "So what if she's working on her ground game. Good for her. She certainly doesn't need to work on her striking.", 
        "I don't get it.", 
        "RIGHT into the Baby Maker", 
        "WHITE BELT LIFE!", 
        "He fittin' go BALLS DEEP!!!! /hodgetwins", 
        "wish head trauma didn't exist and we could watch these 2 fight once a month", 
        "Agreed. Robbie is gonna have some serious CTE pretty soon if he doesn't already", 
        "Don't think so. Most of that stuff is from training, gym wars. Not as much from the fights since they're way way less frequent. I heard Robbie does *very* little hard sparring.", 
        "You don't think a repeated beating to the head twice a year for 15 years will produce some negative effects?", 
        "He never said that.  Of course it will have negative effects.  But Robbie generally wins his fights and many times comes away unscathed.  Fights like this against Rory MacDonald are rare.  It's much worse for you to do hard sparring once a week for 15 years.", 
        "Yeah because taking full force shots to the head in a fight isn't bad for you...I get what you're trying to say, but we can't pretend like most guys get cte from sparring, while actual fights are harmless due to infrequency. Wars like that and concussions when you get KOd are very very bad for you. Though I agree sparring hard is dangerous and those small hits add up. ", 
        "We really don't know what's the worst yet... they're finding even minor, repeated impacts (the article I read was about people using their heads in soccer) can have a cumulative effect. It could end up being true that constant low-level impacts are more harmful than rare but more serious hits.", 
        "Never said fights are harmless, especially Robbie ones. Just that his lack of hard sparring may actually mean he's much better off than the people who have constant gym wars but not as crazy fights. \n\nAlso Robbie has only been KOd once 12 years ago.", 
        "Do you think having a good chin is better or worse for you in the long run? I mean if you don't get KOd by a few shots you absorb so many more. ", 
        "Probably worse in the long run, but people with weak chins don't have very long lasting careers in combat sports.  \n\n", 
        "I don't know why you're being downvoted because you're 100% right.  Most brain damage happens during sparring and training for a decade, not necessarily the fight itself.  There's a reason why fighters get KO'd in training, and that's because they do a lot of hard sparring.  If Lawler avoids that, he'll be much better off in the long run.", 
        "A lot of people have overlooked the significance of this gif. Not only do we have two thick, solid alphas soaked and gagged in each other's blood, eyeing each other down provocatively but we have the legendary Stitch rushing into the Octagon as soon as the bell ends, ready to rub off the excretion and use his finger magic to seal off any deep penetrations. As he joins the engagement, he must first avoid the slick, slippery canvas that's already drenched and lubricated from the previous sessions; before separating the dominant, muscular beast who has a name to suit his size. Big John.", 
        "I have the weirdest boner right now.", 
        "I...uh..what?", 
        "Never looked at it that way", 
        "I agree this was an ultra iconic moment, but goddamn it's not a porno.... Go write some erotic fan fiction or something ", 
        "Need more AlphaBrain", 
        "I honestly think that we are getting fairly close to being able to reduce/treat it. Its of huge interest to the military and they have been funding some studies on it. \nHere is one http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2898565/", 
        "Thats some pretty crazy cool stuff on keto. Never knew about all the potential postives. Pretty cool. ", 
        "LOL - a cure is just around the corner guys!", 
        "No one said that.....", 
        "There is some study's being done\n\nhttp://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3989181/\n\nI take it, like 20 bucks for 2 months supply ", 
        "Have you read a single study on the research that is being done? I don't think that a cure is around the corner, but I do think that we can reduce the damage. ", 
        "Did you honestly just link a study about the ketogenic diet in the context of being able to heal and prevent significant brain trauma? Please don't get your hopes up. No diet is going to be able to reverse years of accumulated blunt force trauma to the head. \n\nOne study or even a couple studies on rats is not worth getting excited about. There have been tens of thousands of studies on rats that have drawn all sorts of conclusions and need for \"further study\" that have ultimately proved to have no relationship whatsoever to human physiology. ", 
        "I agree with you. The study looked at TBI as well, but I'm just trying to make an example that research is being done and (slowly) making progress. Exogenous ketone supplementation right after a fight may help those neurons damaged from the trauma of robbie punches. You can look around for studies but part of the damage is that it interrupts the brains ability to fuel itself. Exogenous ketones or maybe just a ketogenic diet could be able to help with this. Maybe its 20 years away but I'm just trying to suggest that the reality of brain trauma we have today won't be the same forever, this has clearly been shown for other brain condition like seizures. \n\nstuff like this: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0079995", 
        "I can see how the correct nutrition will prevent brain degeneration diseases that are effectively a result of accumulated malnutrition, but how would this reverse head trauma?\n\n", 
        "You won't prevent the trauma but I think someone will be able to find ways to reduce the long term damage. ", 
        "harsh reality of it. they sacrifice their wellbeing now and in the future to entertain and push themselves to the limits.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "These guys really dont make that much compared to other pro athletes", 
        "Even compared to other fighters. McGregor got a million to lose at 196.", 
        "Yes but hes their biggest draw. Most guys get about 20-30 thousand. Rory might have got 40,000 for getting his face smashed in and hes had to live the last 8-9 months on that. By contrast, David price is going to get paid $8,000 every time he throws a pitch this year. ", 
        "A million is just his base pay. It's a much higher total.", 
        "Rory made 40 grand in his war with Lawler (90 with bonus).  It probably took 5 years off his life.  ", 
        "No offense and I agree with your point but 5 years seems like an  exaggeration ", 
        "If Rory fights 6 more times he will die at 35!", 
        "Insurance agents hate him", 
        "You certainly understand why guys are making a switch to Bellator. With fighters like Mitrione making a guaranteed 6 figures per fight. ", 
        "And to make money, you make it out like they do this for free.", 
        "I was listening to Rory on the MMA hour and it was disgusting. He didn't manage to renegotiate a new contract with the UFC as he doesn't think they're paying him his worth. The UFC needs to cop on and pay their stars appropriately. Rory is a highly entertaining fighter, speaks english, is loved by the fans and is a good key to the Canadian Market. I can't believe the UFC are being so complacent with this. My guess is that after a good performance with Thompson he will get a much better contract.", 
        "Nate Diaz make 20k a fight, that's nothing compared to other top UFC fighters. \n\n\nHe made a ton from that Connor fight but that's the first real pay day he's had so far. I guess 20k is a lot when you come from extreme poverty but come on, he's worth more than that and the UFC knows it.", 
        "Diaz did that to himself, he wanted money up front and banked on winning and re signing before the money dwindled down, that did not happen. Also the guy has never fought consistently.", 
        ">speaks english\n\nReally? I get that language barriers create a disconnect of sort between fans and fighters, but it shouldn't be a factor for fighters to get paid IMO. \n\n", 
        "I agree, but realistically, English speakers are valuable to the mass-market now, particularly in the mainstream US, Canadian and European markets. They provide better interviews to the mass market and their character shines through more, thus enticing a greater following. With a greater following, more people will want to watch the event. Also English is very common as a second language across the globe, so fighters who speak it have a greater reach with global fans than those who don't. Like it or not, we are invested in the fighters personalities as well as their skills. ", 
        "There isn't the same simulation of competition for wages in the MMA world like there is for the NBA, NFL, MLB, or professional soccer teams. It's got a lot to do with the fact that having teams creates a price war for athletes. Fighters in the future will likely get paid what Pacquio or Mayweather get now as more people pay for the PPV, but for now, fighters like Rory who are amazing to watch but don't sell fights with their mouths are getting screwed.", 
        "I think the UFC know how much Rory's worth better than you and I ever could. Arguing that he should be given a contract out of loyalty/preventing competition is one thing, but don't tell me the UFC  are letting a valuable, marketable fighter go because of stubbornness, it's just not how business works.", 
        "Well realistically the UFC is the best platform for Rory to develop his career. He's nearly within reach of a title shot and is on the premier stage. If Rory wins, he won't want to leave the UFC when the title shot is right there. That means the UFC do have a lot of bargaining power over him. With that said, it is in their best interests to keep him, because if he walks away they would also lose a huge amount in terms of revenue lost from not having that fight. Even though the UFC still have a lot of bargaining power, letting him go over a hundred thousand a fight or so is a terrible idea given what an event with Rory in it will generate. Rory's current pay scale is around 50k a fight. He definitely generates ten fold or more when he is on a card. Why should his wages not increase proportionally?", 
        "All i'm saying is that there is no way they haven't done that cost-benefit analysis themselves. If they don't think he's worth the money then why would they pay him?\n\n> Rory's current pay scale is around 50k a fight. He definitely generates ten fold or more when he is on a card. \n\nI know businesses can often be greedy in undercutting people's wages, but do you really suppose that the UFC would let someone go who's returning their investment tenfold?", 
        "They won't let him go if that's the case but there are still some high profile fighters on their roster who are grossly underpaid in terms of their net worth to the company. It's been that way for the most part and started to change with people like Conor getting more involved in the analytics and pushing their case more and more.", 
        "Being honest, and I know this will be a downvoted unpopular opinion, but I've never been wildly impressed by Rory and I don't think he's really that big of a draw. He doesn't have the most captivating personality either despite this notion that he's some psychopath because of his monotone delivery.\n\nHe's obviously a very talented kid, but there was so much hype (usually from rogan) about him being such a true well rounded martial artist that has trained mma since youth.... I just think he has never delivered on that hype. \n\nHis performances have been solid. He's a top contender.but he's not a shining star.", 
        "Right, he should call his opponents poor or act more like a pro wrestler. That's what I need.", 
        "you're pretty simple minded if that's all you think of when i suggest that someone has a captivating personality. \n\nbut you're on to something, obviously, as that's exactly how people like joanna j, meisha, rampage, faber, cruz, cowboy, condit, weidman, serra, rogan, JDS, gusstafson, overeem,  etc..... behave. right?", 
        "> rogan\n\n", 
        "He is a strong young man", 
        "> that he arguably won\n\nUm...", 
        "I'm a big Rory fan, but losing by TKO \u2260 arguably winning a fight.\t", 
        "haha yeah shit, I forgot about that. thought it went to a decision", 
        "Was arguably winning. You definitely can't argue that he won.", 
        "I forgot... my mind only remembered him doing well before that...", 
        "I just like that he's an absolute warrior. I don't lie to myself and say he's the best, because he's yet to truly prove himself among the top competitors (usually coming close but losing or taking decisions). While he may not technically be the best, dammit if the kid isn't a fucking fighter at his core. ", 
        "How does he not impress you? He fought Condit when he was 20 and did really well. Battered Nate Diaz, shut down Maia and Woodley, knocked out Saffediene and almost beat Lawler in an absolute war.", 
        "he doesn't have star quality. someone like jon jones was electric when he was young and not yet champion. rory has never delivered that type of excitement.\n\nyeah wars are nice, good fights, sure... but he's a contender in ranks and draw. not the shining example of what a life-long young MMA specialist was hyped to be: a complete monster. \n\nhe's talented. but there's a lot of talent out there. he gets decisions or losses to top guys. the realities of his standing are probably a bitter pill to swallow when negociating deals with a stingy organization.", 
        "Some people do manage to grow into that though. And I think he is.  I hear more people talking about him after each fight  (outside of Reddit).   His personality getting a bit less awkward as time passes is helping a bit too I think. \n\nEdit: I  agree with you that's he's in the type of position the ufc can take advantage of though. It sucks but it's true.", 
        "Shutting down Damien Maia and going to war with Robbie is impressive enough for me. I was in the same boat and sort of converted as he got older. He is a draw for sure", 
        "I agree personality wise, he's not the most marketable fighter.. but not everyone will be. \n\nRegarding talent, i always thought he was one of the best. I still think he will get there.\n\nYou might say what you want but when he was 20 years old they threw at him Carlos Condit and Nate Diaz for his 2nd and 3rd fight in the UFC.. two very experienced and respectable opponents.\nHe was beating the shit out of BJ Penn when he was 22.. he never had an easy time in the UFC by getting hyped by fighting cans and i think he earned the right to get paid.", 
        "I mean going back and watching that Nate Diaz fight. Rory in the 3rd tossed him around like a rag doll! He's worth his reputation IMO. ", 
        "Yeah, watched that one recently as I was looking for the best fights to showcase Nates skills. McDonald-Diaz did not make the cut, but it was a damn good fight!", 
        "He's awesome. And I'm worried he'll never be the same after this fight. \n\nHe would be a huge get for Bellator or WSoF. ", 
        "I also listened to him and I really liked his positive reaction to all the benefits Nate Diaz is receiving from his win over Conor.", 
        "And makes one killer, psycho poutine!", 
        "He was something like the sixth highest earner on that card because he only got his show money of $59,000.  He was winning on all the judges score cards going into the final round.  \nhttp://www.mmafighting.com/2016/3/14/11224612/rory-macdonald-very-willing-to-test-free-agency-after-next-fight", 
        "The thing with ufc,  they only need 2 or 3 good fighters per class and it's easier to wait for one to show up and give his all for a contract he doesn't know he isn't getting than to pay the current stars because the next mcgregor is right around the corner", 
        "Rory is the best, that is a guy that deserves a massive raise in pay. Like you said too, he's incredibly entertaining AND loved by the fans. He rocks.", 
        "they're saving money to pay Mcgregor to do whatever he wants ", 
        "Part of the reason why I really liked Nate's post-fight interview. He basically told the hosts that everyone lets him run his mouth and that \"they\" wanted him to win in every fight. ", 
        "Yeah he's really the only big canadian star at this point, upsetting to hear he doesn't get paid his worth.", 
        "Assuming his contract is in USD, I don't see what the big problem is.", 
        "Wow, rude. You're forgetting about Denis Kang! /s", 
        "If he moved I would watch the shit out of what ever promotion pays him to see him fight.", 
        "Yeah, the problem is a lot of other promotions aren't that \"liquid\" - like you might have a few high profile fighters here and there but the division is probably pretty thin and doesn't have solid foundation. I'd still watch him fight anywhere though.", 
        "may not have a solid foundation, but even ufc really only has a few high profile fighters... it could buckle quick if enough fighters left to a promotion with a promising future", 
        "McDonald vs Askren would be fire", 
        "If you hate Ben Askren that would be a fun fight ", 
        "I've grown to dislike him. Wet blanket style with no killer instinct. His attitude doesn't help ", 
        "Askren might actually die if he fought Rory.", 
        "Easily the most intense moment in MMA,Robbie is a savage this reminds me when he walked Hendricks down after the end of their 2nd fight looking like a  psycho.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Ive been watching since ufc 76,care to explain what u think is the most intense moment for you?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "\"muh Pride Wanderlei\" get the the fuck outta here, you're only shit talking because he has a mcgregor flair. ", 
        "Hey man, pride knew how to put on a spectacle. I don't know what the parent comment was though. ", 
        "He said that Wanderlei's hand roll was more intense than any mid-fight stare down (in reference to the original gif)", 
        "Lol you beat me by a few ppvs. I started watching UFC when Brock Lesnar first joined (UFC 81). Yea I'll admit I was a Brock Lesnar fanboy. But that opened my world to MMA x) cheers mate!", 
        "When in UFC 1 they had that one normal guy fight a not so normal guy. ", 
        ">Easily the most intense moment in MMA\n\n[What about this?](https://embed.gyazo.com/8a5b6934d5ef1305ece0c4db9dc93ef0.gif)", 
        "I'm gonna need to know which PPV this was on so I can go relive this right now", 
        "It was their third fight. I guess Cain was sick of JDS doing that shit", 
        "Thank you!", 
        "Robbie's [head](http://www.cdn.sherdog.com/_images/pictures/20140314023733_aaaa.JPG) and lack of nose makes him look scary as hell.  Like some sort of zombie, or a video game character.  Or Voldemort.  I can't put my finger on it, but he reminds me of some scary creature in a game/movie.", 
        "From dawn till dusk for me.", 
        "Or when he headkicked Bobby Voelker and stood there with his arms in the air, looking like a real ass gladiator ", 
        "ass-gladiator.", 
        "Is that the Ancient Roman equivalent of a butt pirate?", 
        "They asked Rory during his AMA what he was thinking during that stare down:\n\n\"Kill him.\"", 
        "Was I the only that found that corny as hell.", 
        "Rory The Red King. ", 
        "Fuck man. Rory's nose is inside his face ", 
        "Such a shame too, Robbie's face structure (particularly the nose area) is ideal...or at least seems ideal where as Rory's not so much.", 
        "I think Robbie's face kinda flattened out a bit over the course of his career/nose breaks.", 
        "Oh? I wasn't aware, I just remember watching Robbie fight and thinking \"Man, that nose is so much more ideal than the person he is fighting.\" every time.", 
        "They're both sporting a Voldemort look.", 
        "How does he still have a normal face?", 
        "Lego", 
        "His nose was reconstructed. ", 
        "looks like it got deconstructed again", 
        "It was reconstructed following this fight actually", 
        "We have the technology...", 
        "That moment when there's a full moon hanging in the sky and 4th Round Robbie morphs into 5th Round Robbie", 
        "Meanwhile Rory is shortly to run out of Rage rounds and drop to negative hit points.", 
        "[\"RISE FROM YOUR GRAVE!\"](http://www.i-mockery.com/shorts/altered-beast/3.gif)", 
        "It's so true. I remember between those rounds when Robbie faced the crowd and started cheering, it was like a video game where the boss you're fighting gets a sudden surge of energy before his final attack. ", 
        "\"...And this isn't even MY FINAL FORM!!!\"", 
        "I believe his final form will be in a wheelchair if he keeps it up", 
        "It's like in Fallout 4 - \"the enemy has mutated.\"  Suddenly, that feral Robbie ghoul is back at full health, and you gonna die", 
        "Lawler vs. Voldemort", 
        "I remember watching this fight in an Irish bar, was one of the first MMA events I actually went out to watch (Conor hype yes I know) and this was sort of on in the background. By the 2nd round I was thinking my god this may end up being one of the best fights I've ever seen. The people I was with were not really paying attention, chatting drinking etc but by the end of the 4th the whole bar was gathered around the TV screaming at every hit landed, truly memorable fight.", 
        "I watched it at home on PPV as my first live mma fight. What a row! Never seen anything like it before, the amount of blood in HD was horrific and at the same time completely enthralling! Felt like I was back in the Colosseum.\n\nI was entertained!", 
        "Saw this fight on a plane from India.\nThe guy who sat near me was moving very uneasily in his chair.\nPoor Rajiv ", 
        "RIP Rajiv", 
        "Fighters in other orgs are prob thinking about paying Rory under the table to stay in the UFC.", 
        "this is so primal.. so raw. Savage as fuck", 
        "Facial reconstruction much", 
        "Spitting blood, hell ya.", 
        "He's blowing it out his nose.", 
        "You sure? I thought fighters were specifically taught never to blow blood out their noses.", 
        "Well, only if the nose or something around it appears to be broken. Someone had pointed the nose thing back then but i can't find the link anymore, either way i did my own research and he indeed spat the blood. ", 
        "Yeah, Rory's nose was broken as fuck, so I hope he wasn't blowing it out. ", 
        "Yeah, they were saying on MMA hour that he had to do nasal surgery. I don't know to what extent though.", 
        "It was a completely different shape by the end of the fight, I bet it needed a good bit of work.", 
        "They still do it, like Demian Maia", 
        "Eddie Alvarez is the best example I've seen.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tvxdoXsWTGk", 
        "Just my opinion, but Lawler's fights are the most can't-miss of anyone's at this moment in UFC. His last three all have pretty much been fight of the years (the most recent vs. Condit a FOTY candidate).", 
        "I think the run he is on is the most entertaining I have ever seen in my life. I've been a fan for over ten years.", 
        "He takes so much punishment and keeps coming forward. Would love to see a GSP vs Lawler fight. I think Robbie could keep Georges standing for most of the fight. ", 
        "It's not popular to say around here but I do think Lawler would beat GSP right now. I don't see GSP getting it to the ground and I don't see him eating very many of Lawlers shots.", 
        "This is why he is my favorite fighter. Youre basically guarranteed an incredible fight when hes in the ring.", 
        "So you want to be a ultimate fighter?\n\nNo and fuck no", 
        "[GIFV link](https://i.imgur.com/xx55XT2.gifv) // [FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/livven/wiki/gifv-bot)", 
        "It's hard to see in this gif but Lawler spits out a mist of blood right the start. Gruel.", 
        "He blows it out his nose i think", 
        "Hmm. Hard to tell. I always assumed he spit it out because of that horrendous split lip he had. ", 
        "like 2 little serial killers falling in love", 
        "Now that's a romance movie I'd watch.", 
        "this shit still gives me goosebumps.  that staredown is literally murderous.  (and i truly mean literally)\n\n\npeople talk about bad intentions and this and that, but ive never seen an example in ufc or mma where two guys seriously looked like they would love to kill the other dude.  it was such an epic fucking fight.  definitely foty and possibly greatest fight of all time.\n\n\nrespect to rory, but nobody beats fifth round lawler", 
        "Condit survived(not beat) 5th round lawler, and should have the belt right now", 
        "He clearly won 3 rounds", 
        "That's what the guy said, he said Condit survived 5th round Lawler, but Lawler won the 5th round. However, Condit should have won the fight. ", 
        "He did.", 
        "This is the most badass moment in MMA for sure. Both guys covered in blood, faces smashed, round ends and neither one wants to take their eyes off the other like a wolf chasing down its prey. ", 
        "Idk if i preferred this or gus vs jones as a fight, just amazing", 
        "hunt vs silva gets my vote.", 
        "Great fight, but I think it falls short of the other two when it comes to technique.  But then again, a big part of what makes all three great is how much of a factor heart played. ", 
        "I'm going to throw Tarec Saffedeine vs. Hyun Gyu Lim into the mix here.", 
        "aw stitch duran", 
        "One of the most badass things I've ever seen in the octagon. Props to both guys for putting on the war of the year", 
        "best PPV card ever. ", 
        "Yes ", 
        "Two bad motherfuckers doing bad motherfucking things to each other!!", 
        "That look was a big part in the way the fight ended I think. Just the crushing realisation from Rory that Lawler would keep coming.", 
        "Fight of the decade so far. Jones vs Gus comes close, Aldo vs Mendes 2 was great, but this one is different.", 
        "My favourite part of this is how Stitch fucking runs in there. He knows just how fucked Robbie's face is and knows he'll need as much time as possible to ensure there's a 5th round to this.", 
        "This clip always makes me miss Stitch.", 
        "How do I feel like stitch got cut (excuse the pun) before this fight? ", 
        "robbie and voldemort ", 
        "Could someone explain to me how Rory and Robbie aren't going to be fighting again? That was an absolute war. I know Rory needs to win his next fight first but the UFC is missing out on a huge fight for real fans. ", 
        "Sometimes I think that Rory is *actually* a hidden serial killer. With that in mind it gives me chills to see this. \nLike he's not scared at all of Robbie and even finds it amusing that this person who's never actually gone all the way to kill someone is trying to stare him down", 
        "Who are these two fighters? I want to look into the fight a bit more. ", 
        "Welcome to MMA - now go back and watch all of Robbie Lawler and Rory MacDonald's fights. \n\nThen watch all of GSP, Anderson Silva, Fedor Emelianenko and John Jones' fights.\n\nThen start watching the light weights, bantam weights and feather weights because that shit will blow your mind. ", 
        ">and John Jones' fights.\n\n*Jon\n\n", 
        "John Jones vs Rhonda Rousey - book it Dana!", 
        "Miesha Taint vs Holly Holmes", 
        "Uriah Faber vs Connor McGregor", 
        "*Urethra", 
        "Uriah Fedor vs Paul Harris", 
        "Robbie Lawler vs. Rory McDonald", 
        "2", 
        "Here's the full fight: \n\nhttp://bestinmma.blogspot.com/2015/07/robbie-lawler-vs-rory-macdonald-ufc-189.html", 
        "I had to scroll way too fucking far for this.", 
        "you are the mvp", 
        "harsh reality of it. they sacrifice their wellbeing now and in the air, looking like a psycho.", 
        "I honestly have a hard time watching this one the whole way through.", 
        "At first I thought that said \"2 Killed in the octagon\"...", 
        "Best fight I've seen. Both have very strong jaws", 
        "My single favorite MMA moment ever. ", 
        "This is my favorite fight gif ever.", 
        "the only one that really went down there was stitch :(", 
        "MORTAL KOMBAT!!!!\n\n", 
        "such a great fight. really became a rory fan after this one. you can see in the picture that his body is broken but he is still there, ready for one more.", 
        "This moment gave me goosebumps. I will always remember this fight.", 
        "I felt bad for Rory in that fight.  Looked painful as fuck.", 
        "One of the best fights I've ever seen.", 
        "This thread ends up exactly the same every time and I love it.  I get deja vu reading the comments.", 
        "Due to the belt being on the line, I think that is the best match Ive ever seen. Context def matters. Its almost like Lawler his a buzzer beater or returned a kick with that face shattering punch. The adrenaline dump in my body was insane during that brawl. Used to not like Rory, and always liked Lawler. Now I love em both. True fuckin warriors.", 
        "Goddamn, it's not until June when Rory fights again? ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff", 
        "What the actual fuck, Rory only got 40k$ + 50k$ bonus for that fight...", 
        "Hence his openness about testing free agency. ", 
        "That shit was insane... really chilling to watch how brutal that fight was. ", 
        "God the blood mist Lawler spits at the beginning. So metal.", 
        "That was one of the most EPIC fights I've ever witnessed.", 
        "You can see they are ready to go all the fucking way right there. ", 
        "Illest shit i've seen in the octagon! Seeing that live was insane. rewatching it gives it no justice.", 
        "Truly a bad ass moment. One of the best UFC nights ever.", 
        "This is the first fight I ever sat down and watched. I was talking about it for weeks", 
        "I was so privileged to see this fight. Even when it was happening everyone in the crowd was just looking in awe. What a fight.", 
        "one of my favorite fights ever", 
        "One of the most epic sequences in MMA history right here. That fight was beyond incredible.", 
        "UFC 2 did not give this staredown justice", 
        "Lawler looks like Voldemort", 
        "Watched this before picking up UFC 2. Haven't watched this fight and been out of the loop for a while. Just got done playing the intro. I'm so pumped. I think I need to get cable again!", 
        "That's blood money right there. 2 men spilling blood to put food on the table. Respect.", 
        "One of my favourite moments in MMA", 
        "\"2 killed in the Octagon\" that day. ", 
        "Where the hell are their noses!?", 
        "fucken savages", 
        "They both have no nose left.", 
        "Never noticed the blood spitting before. ", 
        "Was this the last time we see stitch in the octagon? ", 
        "I'm glad Stitch and Big John knew what to do.", 
        "HTML5 Video \n\n\n[Desktop version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/qoU8ckj/) (14.77%). \n\n\n[Mobile version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/qoU8ckj/?minified=true) (1.09%). \n\n\n----------------------------------- \n\n\n^[info](http://offsided.com/about_bots/) ^| ^[feedback](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=wonglik) ^| [^Upload](http://offsided.com/upload/)\n\n", 
        "GIF took long to load so got stuck in slowmo, looked like they gang up on Rory lol.... Fuckin beasts, these two.", 
        "Excellent fight. Back when Stitch was still with the UFC. ", 
        "This isn't McGregor or Rousey... I'm confused!!?", 
        "I would classify this more as 1 killer, 1 victim because Rory just looks spent at this point.", 
        "Maybe he looks that way, but he was arguably winning the fight at this point.", 
        "Big John totally keeps his cool but totally keeps control of the situation.  O.G!", 
        "Rory got 50k for this smh", 
        "It's hard to see in this probably pisses Dana off to no end.", 
        "animals", 
        "/r/sportsarenotfun", 
        "Damn son.", 
        "this was the fight.......this fight....that was my girlfriends introduction to MMA with me.....it did not go well", 
        "What's up bitch!", 
        "so fucking gangster.", 
        "How many times will this be posted...", 
        "the cone of blood spray emanating Robbies face is fucking badass. \n\nStitch Duran being in this probably pisses Dana off to no end. ", 
        "...And the mentality behind that continued walk forward at the end is exactly why Lawler won.", 
        "the unbearable pain he put on rory's nose is why he won.", 
        "....I mean, five rounds of dominance in an all-out war is the actual reason, but hyperbole is a thing.", 
        "Dominance in all rounds? What fight did you watch?", 
        "...Rory was winning this fight up until that last round. ", 
        "Indeed he was, Dana mentioned he(lawler)was losing on every scorecard", 
        "I keep forgetting Dana is a judge.  Thanks for reminding me.", 
        "All three judges scorecards, did I spell that out clearly enough for you to comprehend", 
        "I have no issue with that, Dana's opinion means jack shit though.", 
        "That's not an opinion that's (if true) a fact.", 
        "I keep forgetting how seriously we are supposed to take everything that Dana says...", 
        "It's hard to decide whether \"killers\" or \"warriors\" is a more annoying appellation for fighters. ", 
        "You've been dying for a chance to use \"appellation\" haven't you? ", 
        "It was early, the other option was \"thingy to call them\" and appellation was quicker to type. ", 
        "Rory lives off having a weird voice and personality. Lawler is a killer, Rory isn't. He just looks and acts weird. Who's the best guy he's beaten? Maia? A close fight against a guy with zero stand up.", 
        "Nick vs Robbie rematch would allow me to die happy.", 
        "How do you even get to that? Because he lost to Silva? Sorry no contest. I mean his last fights, which is barely even worth mentioning since he only fought 3 times the past over 4 years. IT MAKES NO SENSE.", 
        "Well Nick KO'd Lawler in their first fight, so it would be like Robbie getting a chance to redeem himself. Diaz is obviously the bigger star.", 
        "He actually didn't lose to Silva :P. The decision was overturned.", 
        "Yeah I did say no contest. ", 
        "It doesn't have to make sense, it just has to make dollars.", 
        "It makes perfect sense if you give him a top 5ish guy at WW, casuals pay attention because they hear the name \"Diaz\" and assume it's the guy Conor fought (it's sad, but true.) Nick stomps him out, da danga da danga da dang, people are hyped in both Diaz bro's now, and it's hard not to give them what they want if they will pull in $$$ for Dana", 
        "Or, more realistically, the top 5 guy stomps Nick out. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Its just /r/MMA who has a hardon for Diaz. No one else knows who they are. ", 
        "Not now...go out in the world at large and you will hear a lot of people who have no clue about MMA other than Rhonda and Conor", 
        "Not to the mainstream fans. Nate made sure of that when he beat Conor. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "And HOW many more 196 fans know Nate instead of Nick? Believe what you want, but you're distorting reality to perpetuate your own opinion of likening Nick more than Nate.", 
        "I think the 100k petition signers would agree.", 
        "It makes sense when you look at the money and not the standings. So basically you can book it. This shit is going down", 
        "What money? No one outside /r/MMA knows who the hell Diaz is. Ok I don't mean no one, but very very few. ", 
        "Such a sad truth", 
        "More people would care for Diaz than anyone else in line right now", 
        "Gonna call BS. Nick Diaz is way more well known for his days in Strikeforce and probably has more name recognition then any other WW (except GSP), that includes the champion Lawler.", 
        "A guy that has lost 3 last fights...over the past 4 years. I mean talking about not being active.   ", 
        "But your comment wasn't about his record (which I agree with).  \n>No one outside /r/MMA knows who the hell Diaz is.\n\nthats simply not true", 
        "But then the draw is all Lawler, because if you have a shitty record, people just do not get that excited...except in this sub where the level of man crush is absolutely astounding.  ", 
        "The only people who don't want it are those that pay attention to the rankings. And who cares about those? ", 
        "It doesn't have to make sense. It needs to make money. ", 
        "...if it makes money, it makes sense...", 
        "Also you can hype it as the guy who only ever knocked out the champ. Diaz the man whose fought 4 four former world champions. ", 
        "\"It doesn't have to be in good taste to taste good\"\n\nGene Simmons\n     -Kenny Florian\n(This is so old but it is the first time I have made this joke)", 
        "Much more eloquent version. Upvote this guy. ", 
        "Nick is 0-3 in his last 3", 
        "0-2-1*  lost against the goat, had a highly disputed match against condit that was super close and then clowned on a roided up anderson.  Just let Gsp and nick return to face each other fuck it", 
        "nuthugger", 
        "What did I say that was false?  I just corrected the mistake you made :)", 
        "One against the goat, and the other super close and the third a no contest", 
        "Fight of the fucking year right here.", 
        "This sub always picks against Robbie and especially when it comes to Nick because of their first fight a decade ago, but I think I would take Robbie in the rematch.", 
        "Me too. I actually think Nick could pull off the win as well - the only thing he'd have to worry a lot about is Round 5 Robbie, which as of late is just fucking insane. Then again, Nick is a great counter striker, has a great chin and knows how to take a punch. If he pulled off a win against Lawler again, I'd be a very happy fan.", 
        "what makes you think robbie makes it that far?", 
        "I am not sure how it would go, would be good to see Nick end the fight by KO/TKO.", 
        "**Round 5 Robbie**\n\nThat will go well with **Sea Level Cain**, **Full Camp Mendes** and all the others.. I think this might be the first positive one lol", 
        "Can we make off-the-couch Diaz into another one?", 
        "To be fair, round 5 robbie is not an excuse,, thats how he fights Leaving it all in there, full camp mendez, sea level cain, sober jones, motivated BJ - apple juice lombard are all excuses or has the possibility to become one ", 
        "Don't forget horsemeat Reem", 
        "horsemeat reem isnt an excuse tho, its legit god mode", 
        "Don't be forgetting about Conscious Aldo", 
        "Round 5 Robbie is terrifying.", 
        "Shit yeah he is", 
        "I think both fighters would be great at round 5. Remember that Nick is one of the best cardiofreaks in UFC, and the best in WW. Needless to say, both guys are the kind of fighters that can make exciting fights after round 2, so this should be a hell of a fight.", 
        "They're both different fighters now then they were before (well mostly Robbie) but stylistically I'd say Nick has an edge.", 
        "The difference is Nick is a round 2 - 5 fighter. They typically spend the first half of round one testing range and reaction time. If the other guy stands with them and not fight for Take downs, the Diaz brothers will drown you with punches.\n\nNick wins the Lawler fight again by round 3.", 
        "Yup. I just recently watched the kj noons fight and was so upset that they stopped the fight. I felt Nick had that fight in the bag.", 
        "Seriously? I mean it is pretty normal for Nick to lose the first round and then take over the fight but I don't think anyone has ever had a more one-sided round against him than KJ Noons did in that fight", 
        "I know it's pretty crazy, but I'm just so used to seeing Nick get beat up for the first round, and then you see their opponent start to gas. Then the second round comes in, and he just takes over with his cardio. I really felt KJ Noons was gassing and Nick only had cuts. ", 
        "Oh for sure, I think it was after that fight he got surgery for that", 
        "After the Nate/Conor fight Nate said he just had to coast through round one just to be sure that he could get his rhythm back and go for five. Coasting while the dude opposite you is exhausting himself trying to put your lights out is fucking gangsta shit.  ", 
        "I broke down a Diaz fight before Nate fought Conor here:\n\nhttps://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/48t171/diaz_doing_work_against_cerrone/d0mdpxl\n\n\nAny fan of the Diaz guys knew that fight was a nightmare for Conor, and really anyone who doesn't have super clean standup (with reach advantage) or incredible wrestling skills (combined with good BJJ defense). I would also have Nick beating Robbie in a rematch.", 
        "\"Drag you into deep waters and just beat the fuck out of you. \"\n\nIt's incredibly cliche. But God dammit thats really the best way I've ever seen the Diaz style put...", 
        "Joe Rogan also explained it some time ago    \n    \n>\"That's one of the reasons why he fucks guys up: he just puts a pace on them that they can't keep up with. It's just like he's running with them. He just makes them run at his pace, and then, before you know it, they're wilting, and he's beating the fuck out of 'em.\"    \n    ", 
        "Never forget.\n\nDiaz 1,2,3 and **5**", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "The infamous saying is Diaz 1,2,5 but I had Diaz winning 1,2,3 and 5. \n\n125 for Diaz without a doubt. 3 was close but I would give that to Diaz too. Round 4 goes to Condit. ", 
        "If Nick won, I would have a goofy smile on my face for a year. Hopefully the MMA gods will come through.", 
        "\"I'm thinking probably the lightweight title fight, whatever is biggest,\" Diaz said. \"The biggest thing with Lawler and GSP -- I would have been all about those fights and I am, but at the same time, my brother [Nick] is coming back and those are his fights. Those are Nick Diaz fights. I'm not trying to step on his shoes. We'll see how things play out. As far as rematches go, I lost close decisions and never got a rematch.\"\n\n\n\n\"I'm not asking for anything. I'm demanding more than everybody. I want more than everybody, straight up. Money talks. I want the biggest fight. Whoever I've got to fight -- the biggest show, biggest payday -- that's what I want.\"", 
        "Funnily enough, a title fight or Conor are still his biggest paydays. Could you imagine how a lightweight bout with Diaz would sell? \n\nImagine 200 being Diaz Conor LW rematch, RDA Alvarez, Jose Edgar, Robbie GSP, and Holm Tate 2. That is all feasible and would sell like fucking 2-for-1 hand jobs.", 
        "LOL fuck Frankie Edgar.  All I want to see next is the rematch with Diaz for the belt!  I can imagine Frankie's spastic, nonsensical twitter tantrum now.\n\n\"You're ducking me Conor.  Fighting that guy who just choked you out instead of your real nemesis: ME!  I'm the fight the fans want!\"\n\nthen his manager and his dummy accounts would retweet it for the next month.", 
        "Not sure what belt you're talking about. RDA's still the LW champ and there's no way Diaz is moving to 145.", 
        "I don't think *he's* sure what he's talking about. ", 
        "Sorry smoked too much weed.  Thought they were saying an immediate rematch between Diaz and McGregor for the Featherweight belt, not a LW rematch.  And before some \"Well actually\" bot comes in, I realize the first fight was at WW.", 
        "Don't blame the weed, fuck sauce.", 
        "Reading your comment was a waste of my time and you are a waste of skin.", 
        "Chill fam", 
        "Nate won the Mcgregor belt, so Mcgregors going to have to fight him again if he wants it. ", 
        "hahaha I loved it when Nate said he was the 145 pound champ.", 
        "That's too many pay per view points given to fighters to make it happen", 
        "Ooooh my God I think I just peed a little", 
        "Jesus fuck sports bars around the nation would implode, municipalities would have to demolish and quarantine the lots for years.", 
        "I don't want to see GSP fight Robbie (at least right away).  Imagine how fucking beat up he is going to be, even if he wins?  Let him fight Nick Diaz or Anderson Silva.  Money fights where he won't end up looking like hamburger.", 
        "GSP is the best in the world, I want to see him fight the best in the world, fuck anything else about money or styles, I want the top guys facing off.", 
        "Maybe he is not anymore, and maybe I am not ready for that.", 
        "I really don't want a GSP Silva fight. I know they are the GOATS of their weight classes and it would have been amazing a few years ago, I just feel like now everyone would be disappointed.", 
        "I couldn't agree more. I would have loved to see this fight years ago, not now. It would be sad.", 
        "I can almost guarantee it would be GSP wrestle fucking Silva and Silva trying to slip punches the entire time.", 
        "I don't think theres a chance Conor vacates his title. I think Dana and Conor are praying right now that Nate vs. RDA happens and Nate wins. Conor fights at 204 at FW defends the title against whoever he doesn't fight at 200, then moves up to LW to fight Nate at 209. ", 
        "Nate at 209? Odin would be hosting the greatest BBQ in all of immortal history, all of Valhalla would attend.", 
        "I'm glad he didn't follow through with Dana's bullshit. He is way too small for them.", 
        "Fuck off with this Dana hate. Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor.", 
        "I don't think he's too small but he wouldn't have an obvious reach and height advantage like he does against 155ers and 170 is too competitive for him to take away those advantages. Nick has a hard time there too and he's arguably more talented", 
        "Nate fought at WW before. I think he would have beaten Stun Gun if it had been a five round fight. Plus, he was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor.", 
        "GSP is huge. ", 
        "Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor, so Nate doesn't care about how huge he is, other than in the figurative sense.", 
        "I was referencing that guy who took a pic with GSP and posted it here. He looked short but said that he wasn't small, that GSP was standing closer to the camera and that GSP was huge. Everyone gave him shit for it. Do you even internet?", 
        "Meh, it's mostly the angle really. ", 
        "He look pretty good in his last fight at 155 as well. However, other than RDA (maybe) who at lightweight is going to bring in the money?", 
        "I'm almost certain they wanted to put Nate in the WW title picture to simply hype him as the \"welterweight that beat Mcgregor!\" The loss that there cash cow suffered looks a lot worse when it was against a guy who competes in a class 10lbs heavier then FW.  Convince everyone that Nate is a contender at 170 and Mcgregor is a celtic warrior who moved up 25lbs to compete! He's a true fighter! He wants the best in the world at any weight! A true hero in MMA! ", 
        "Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor.", 
        "someone said this in the post fight discussion of the event too.. \"they will try  and make him fight gsp or robbie to make it look like conor lost to a true 170\"", 
        "Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor. Stop ignoring that fact.", 
        "you are fucking dumb", 
        "You're a fucking circlejerking shitposter.", 
        "It's interesting to me for some reason that this insult could only fly inside of reddit. ", 
        "Pretty sure 4chan invented or at least popularized \"shitposter\".", 
        "http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/nate-diaz-i-was-trying-to-fight-georges-st-pierre-before-ufc-offered-me-conor-mcgregor-030116", 
        "so what? whats ur fucking point? i didnt say it wasnt ture, I said he was fucking dumb and so are you.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "this is why i also believe nate when he said he offered to take the fight at a lower catch weight\n\ndana/ufc/conor wanted to build credibility at 170, for the obvious lawler fight that was next, by beating a \"welterweight\"\n\nthey were already talking about the lawler fight before the diaz fight even happened. at one of the press conferences leading up to diaz/conor, dana even said he was fine with conor fighting lawler next, dismissing the idea that nate even had a chance of winning", 
        "That last bit isn't true at all. Dana said something along the lines of \"it'll be hard to deny him lawler if he beats RDA\", he never dismissied the idea that Nate even had a chance of winning lol.", 
        " beating RDA wasnt part of the equation/question at all. he was asked about conor fighting lawler after nate and he said he was fine with it. he was going to jump right past LW and go for WW since RDA was injured\n\nand no, im not gonna go back and listen to two hour long press conferences to find the exact 10 second clip. i dont come on the forum to just make shit up. dana okd a fight with lawler with nate sitting right next to him\n\n", 
        "I think you are reading too much into it.   ", 
        "I disagree. They wanted him in the WW title picture because that is where Conor would have been for UFC 200. Nate is replacing him. Or against GSP. Why do you think GSP attended 196? For a probable face off hype against Conor. They are giving now to Nate the 2 possible bigger fights.\n\nHim with RDA has two problems. The first one is that RDA doesn't sell shit. The second one is that Nate already lost recently and badly against him, and the last thing UFC wants is a marquee fight where one guy grapple fucks the other for 5 rounds.\n\nThis has nothing to do with Conor, and everything to do with Nate. UFC knows that if Conor loses his next fight he is far away from the PPV big numbers.", 
        "So they were going to let GSP a fighter not under contract with the company into the octagon to have a stare down with the biggest draw in the sport? That doesn't seem like very good business.", 
        "maybe Conor would have gone out like he did against Aldo.", 
        "GSP is still under contract with the UFC.  The contract is frozen while he stays out of competition.", 
        "Is GSP not still under contract?  I thought he had fights left.", 
        "Interesting thought there about Conor and GSP...", 
        "That doesn't make any sense.\n\nConor has (had) the opportunity to challenge Robbie because if he had beaten RDA at 196 he would have been a two-division champion, and someone who has proven himself at fighting at higher weight classes.\n\nNate beating Conor doesn't make him even a one-division champion, and Conor is one weight class below him. It's like if Rory beat Pettis, that doesn't make it so that he can now challenge Rockhold. That makes zero sense.\n\nYou really think if it was another FW instead of Conor that Nate had beaten, a previously #5 ranked LW that already lost decisively to RDA would be getting the title push against Robbie Lawler? Come on dude. Especially since Nate has already competed at WW and did badly there.\n\nThis has everything to do with making McGregor look good and nothing to do with Nate actually being considered a viable challenger at 170. UFC doesn't give a fuck about Nate, they want to protect their cash cow.", 
        "I... [can't argue this.](http://imgur.com/v5XMOXB)", 
        "Did you know that Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor?", 
        "Totally agree. And like nate said those are nicks fights.  And I agree would rather see nick fight those guys than nate", 
        "Nate wasn't saying that a few weeks ago, when he was trying to get the GSP fight.", 
        "he needed the money fights to help support his brother while he was banned. \n\nHe got paid so he does not have to have such a risky fight. Might as well pound some LW ", 
        "How would that help Mcgregor? If Nate gets demolished by Robbie, (which he very well could) that just makes Mcgregor look even worse.", 
        "The fight would never actually take place, but people talking about Nate vs Lawler gets it into peoples heads that Nate is a WW.  Therefore McGreggor lost to someone two weight classes above where he normally competes.  ", 
        "You know who else thinks Nate is a WW? Nate. He was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor.", 
        "For a pay day, but tell yourself whatever helps you sleep at night after your boy lost.", 
        "No, that's my line to you. You're trying to pretend that the UFC is setting up Nate to fail because they want Conor to look good, when the truth is that **FIGHTING A SUPER STAR AT 170 IS WHAT NATE HAS BEEN ASKING FOR FOR WEEKS.** He dropped out of the fucking Pettis fight because he thought he could get GSP.", 
        "They aren't setting him up to fail cause the fight was never going to happen.  Start a rumor that Nate is going to fight for the WW belt and all the casual fair weather fans that Conor brought in will start to believe he only lost cause Nate is \"obviously a WW if he has the chance to fight Robbie\".  It's a very smart PR spin to keep the hype going around Conor.", 
        "Nate said he was trying to fight GSP before getting offered the McGregor fight.\nhttp://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/nate-diaz-i-was-trying-to-fight-georges-st-pierre-before-ufc-offered-me-conor-mcgregor-030116", 
        "> For a pay day\n\nWhich he got from Conor.  In the article he says that now that Nick is coming back there's no point in him taking either GSP or Lawler fights.  \n\n", 
        "The UFC wants big name fights for 200, but the only title fights they're going to have available are the WW and FW titles, unless Ronda comes out of retirement early. Ideally, they'd get Robbie vs GSP, but GSP may not want to come back, much less for the belt. So where does that leave Robbie?\n\n* Rory and Wonderboy are fighting\n\n* the Condit PPV barely sold anything\n\n* no one cares about Tyron Woodley\n\nNate, however, just beat the biggest star in the sport and has fought at WW before. I **guarantee** you that if Nate pushed for that fight, he'd get it. Dana and Lorenzo salivate at the mouth to a 200 card with\n\n* Lawler vs Diaz\n\n* Conor vs Frankie", 
        "Diaz would have a solid chance against Robbie and chances are that even if he loses he would make it a fun and semi-competitive fight. If he wins. everybody talks about how awesome Conor was for taking on the 170 lb champ and would even push for a rematch because \"he would have won if he didn't gas!\" ", 
        "They spend the build up convincing people Nate is the #2 welterweight on the planet. Nate vs Robbie! This is the fight everyone has been waiting for!  Conor lost against the #2 welterweight because of inefficiency he dominated him for a round and a half! Imagine if Mcgregor was efficient with his energy, he could beat Robbie! ", 
        "Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor. I know you want this circlejerk badly, but it's garbage.", 
        "Yeah, okay great.. but if Diaz gets wrecked Connor looks even worse off. Connor then looks stupid for even wanting to fight Robbie, because he lost convincingly to a larger Nate and then Nate just got ran over by an even bigger Lawler.", 
        "It doesn't matter if Diaz gets wrecked. All that matters is they hype Diaz as the #2 welterweight in the world. When Conor fights they won't show clips of Nate getting wrecked, they show clips of Conor landing big shots on the #2 welterweight in the world! Conor comes out looking strong as hell. Marketing bro.", 
        "No, the truth is that Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor.", 
        "And when Nate beats Robbie they can say McG lost to the best WW in the world. Also sets a massive stage for Diaz vs McG II for the Lightweight title. Nate vacates his belt to go for Conor's 155 title. Leaving the door open for a Nick and Robbie rematch for the belt as the comain to Diaz-McG. Creating the perfect universe where both Diaz brothers hold belts and flip everyone off.", 
        "this is such BS lol", 
        "Ding Ding Ding.   This.", 
        "Ding ding ding. Spot on.", 
        "[Try our new Dingdong King Kong Singsong Burger!](https://youtu.be/Uco5Ed-5y2U?t=2m21s)", 
        "Ding ding ding!", 
        "STOP RINGING THAT FUCKING BELL\n\nWHY DID WE EVEN GET A BELL", 
        "Ding dong https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=PHQLQ1Rc_Js", 
        "Holy fucking shit, stop this circlejerk right now.\n\n**NATE WAS TRYING TO GET THE GSP FIGHT BEFORE CONOR.**", 
        "Sauce? ", 
        "http://www.bjpenn.com/mma-news/videos/exclusive-video-nate-diaz-wants-fight-georges-st-pierre/\n\nPettis also confirmed on Ariel's show that his fight with Nate fell through because Nate stopped answering his phone.", 
        "Because that's a big money fight to go up to 170 for making him fight Robbie is basically putting him in that bracket. A random off shoot money fight does not. See: silva v Diaz, Conor v Diaz. ", 
        "Except beating Conor did put him in title contention at WW for 200. Dana and Lorenzo want big names to sell that event. I guarantee you you won't see Lawler vs Woodley.", 
        "They never would have let Nate actually fight a top contender at 170 imo. If he did the gulf in size and skill(sorry Nate) would quickly become apparent and McGregor's defeat would look all that much worse. \n\nIt's actually going to be interesting to see where Nate goes from here: he's too small to compete with the top guys at 170 and the LW champ smashed him not too long ago. If Pettis gets past Barboza I'd love to see a #1 contendership match between those 2 guys, would be a really exciting fight.", 
        "Would love to see a fight between Pettis/Diaz, but at this point it wouldn't make sense for it to be a number one contender bout. \n\nNeither of those guys look as if they'll have much of a chance against the top guys who have a strong wrestling base and decent striking (ie. RDA or Alvarez). \n\nI'd personally like to see Ferguson or Nurmy get their chance next.\n\n", 
        "> If he did the gulf in size and skill(sorry Nate) would quickly become apparent\n\nThis is what the Rory/Nate fight was", 
        "Yup. And to a lesser extent the Dong Hyun Kim fight. Size and skill are equally important in an MMA match. Nate's skill might allow him to make up for the size difference against lesser fighters at 170 but against the best it would too much of an ask. Also an unpopular opinion: Rory is the more skillful and definitely the more well-rounded fighter.", 
        "Than Nate? How is that an unpopular opinion? Rory beat Bate at 170", 
        "Folks are high on Nate after he ended McGregor-mania and the Diaz bros have a core of rabid fans who'll take their part in any argument. And tbf size played a major role in Rory's victory but I also believe he had the advantage in skill and definitely in having a more well-rounded skill set and the ability to adapt and use different strategies to win.", 
        "Regardless Rory beat Nate at 170. It's not an unpopular opinion at all that Rory is better.\n\nLiterally noone thinks Nate is better than Rory.", 
        "And yet both of my comments saying that Rory is better are being down-voted without anyone actually bothering to put together a counter-argument as to why Nate is a superior fighter.", 
        "Because you said it was an unpopular opinion that Rory is better. You aren't being downvoted because they think Nate is better, you're being downvoted because absolutely noone here thinks Nate is better and that it isn't an unpopular opinion at all.\n\nYou shouldn't be downvoted IMO. I'm just saying why.", 
        "They also probably wanted to put Nate in a PPV main event right after his big upset while his name's hot, but didn't want to do RDA again due to how recent of a squash match it was. ", 
        "Or they were simply looking for a big money fight for GSP at 200.", 
        "Or Nate was trying to get the GSP fight before Conor.", 
        "nobody else things they're setting up silva v gsp for 200?", 
        "no.", 
        "I think slapping Diaz vs. St. Pierre would still sell a shit ton if its Nick. Would still catch a ton of attention because of the widespread knowledge of the Diaz name. ", 
        "Except they already fought and it turned out to be a wrestle-fuck-fest.", 
        "Yeah, but thats probably gonna happen regardless of who GSP comes back to fight, assuming he does come back. Plus, it's been three years and will probably be close to four once Nick is back in action and ready to fight someone of that caliber, although knowing the Diaz bro's that'll probably be immediately. ", 
        "If I were Nate I'd be like \"I'm fighting RDA at 155 for the title to set up a possible champion vs champion rematch with conor if he and I both win... under the condition my brother nick gets his rematch with lawler on the same card\". Win or lose the diaz bros would be having red panty nights.", 
        "That would be so awesome. \n\nNate Diaz vs RDA UFC 200 155 Championship Nate Wins\n\nNate Diaz vs Conor McGregor UFC 209 155 Championship\n\nNick Diaz vs Robbie Lawler UFC 209 170 Championship\n", 
        "That would be so sick.", 
        "Problem with that is Nate can't beat RDA. RDA is a nightmare style for Nate. ", 
        "I don't disagree, but RDA was definitely on the juice before. Now he probably isn't. Wouldn't be as crazy as you think.", 
        "I feel like he's been crazier after being off the juice lol.", 
        "Well that fight with cowboy was nuts. I didn't see that coming (as fast as it did).", 
        "Yeah I'd tune in for a pair of Diaz title shots.", 
        "Somebody/UFC needs to sell \"pairs\" of red Diaz panties.", 
        "and that card is on UFC 209. mma perfection achieved.", 
        "I hadn't thought of this scenario. Now this is exactly what I want to see.", 
        "I didn't know how bad I wanted this until you mentioned it. ", 
        "Reminds me of Cormier dropping down in weight so he and Cain wouldn't compete. Amazing levels of loyalty", 
        "cormier and cain should switch. cain moves to LHW to try jones and cormier moves up to hw to fight werdum. I would give my left nut to see sea level cain fight bones.", 
        "Can you imagine the trash-talk in the buildup to Diaz vs. Diaz though. \n\nNate: \"what up motherfucker, 209\". \n\nNick: \"209 motherfucker, what up\".", 
        "This should be the main event for UFC 209.", 
        "If they dont schedule one, if not both, of the Diaz bros for 209 I will be disappoint", 
        "Nate: \"I don't give a fuck, I'm a ninja bitch.\"\n\nNick: \"Fuck you mother fucker I don't give a fuck, I'm an OG Ninja.\"\n\nNate: \"Man fuck you I don't give a fuck.\"\n\nNick: \"Nah dude I don't give a fuck!!\"\n\n", 
        "I'd be okay with them slapping each other and yelling Stockton for 5 rounds.", 
        "Gentleman's agreement not to test for weed, pat down for Sai's and or nunchucks prior to entering the Octagon.", 
        "No, a Sai fight would be mandatory. ", 
        "\"I sucked your momma's titty\" - diaz \n\n\n\n\"fuck\" - diaz", 
        "This is implies they weren't raised by feral dogs on the streets of Stockton, I just assumed.", 
        "Feral dogs got weekends.", 
        "Love Nate, but I just don't think he's big enough for the welterweight division.  As long as he can make the weight, I really like him at LW.  Unfortunately, there's not really a big-money fight there that I can think of.", 
        "Rda, Khabib, Ferguson, Poirier are all pretty big fights for him I'd say. ", 
        "Pettis?", 
        "Maybe. I'd like to see it, but Pettis isn't the draw he was a couple of years ago. ", 
        "If he gets the chance he should take GSP or Lawler. It will be a fucking huge payday. Nick has plenty of super fights he could do when he returns, Nate needs to strike when the iron is hot, getting leg kicked and wresteld fucked by RDA is not doing him any favoures.", 
        "I think he really believes Nick can get back up the ladder at 170 (as do I if he can get some wins). A title fight with Lawler would sort of derail that as the two would never fight each other (nick and Nate I mean). So I disagree with that, that's just loyalty. But GSP, Diaz and him will likely never fight again, there's no motivation outside of some fans who would want to see that rematch over GSP fighting many other top contenders, and there's no belt there that could make for a strange situation between the Diaz bros. Nick had his shot there, Nate might as well give it a try and take the pay day.", 
        "Yeah agreed.  Plus even if Nate isn't a natural 170 pounder... he could give Lawler problems stylistically.  I don't think he'll hold the belt long but he could definitely beat Lawler.  ", 
        "Jesus christ who the fuck CAN Robbie Lawler beat according to this sub?", 
        "He can beat everybody...  I'm just saying Nate is good... ", 
        "Oh cmon. Robbie Lawler has to be the most underrated champ. Nick has a chance, but Nate doesn't imo.", 
        "I know Lawlers good he's one of my favorites for over a decade but Nate is just that good.  Isn't he undefeated in fights without the takedown threat?  My only concern is the size difference.  Nate has really fuckin good and unorthodox standup that's been tried and tested many times... I wouldn't sleep on it.", 
        "> Dana White suggested a title bout against Robbie Lawler \"makes sense\"\n\nAs much as we're all high on Nate Diaz hype right now, I really hope they don't do that. I think there needs to be a certain level of respect for the hierarchy of each division, and that hierarchy is disrespected when you give out title shots to fighters who frankly have not earned them.\n\nI mean, there's a bit of wiggle room, for sure. If a charismatic fighter puts on an impressive performance against the #5 guy in the division and they give him a shot, that's fine with me. There isn't any strict formula for who gets the next shot at the champion. But when you have a fighter who is 3-2 as a UFC welterweight (2-2 if you recognize that the McGregor fight was not *really* a welterweight bought), who hasn't beaten *anyone* in the current top 15 of the welterweight division, and you give him a title shot based on a win over a featherweight who is 0-1 as a welterweight and 0-0 as a UFC lightweight, then you're basically defeating the purpose of having a championship. It's supposed to be about finding out who is the very best fighter in that division, and there are several contenders that have a much stronger argument than Nate Diaz.", 
        "Pls dear God can we have a Diaz double title shot card? OR title shot + superfight? So good!", 
        "UFC 209: Stockton Motherfucker\n", 
        "Diaz vs RDA, becomes champ. Drops down to FW for Conor superfight. Diaz becomes 2-weight champ. Die happy. ", 
        "wheres the actual interview all of these headlines are from? i fucking hate it when websites do this. just give us the interview! don't split it into 15 clickbait headlines and post them separately ", 
        "They get 1 click for the interview but like 30 for all these one liner articles.\n\n\nMma journalism is so weird", 
        "its because it isnt journalism ", 
        "No shit. Nate's a fucking lightweight.  Calling his fight with McGregor a welterweight fight was at best misleading.  It was a lightweight fight where the fighters were hydrated at the weigh-in.\n\nI'd shit in my own hat and call it a tuna fish if Lawler was ever 170lbs when he stepped onto the Harley Davidson prep point brought to you by EA Sports UFC 2 available now at finer department stores.", 
        "He's right that they're not his fights, but they're not Nick's either.  Nick needs to do some work.  Maybe I could see a GSP rematch since it'd be a comeback for GSP, but he needs some Ws before anybody's talking Lawler (even if he did beat him once upon a time.)\n", 
        "Throughout his career, most of Nick Diaz' losses have been close decisions against top-level fighters where he got completely robbed in some cases, like the Condit fight where Diaz should've won that interim belt clearly instead of Condit who did not deserve it. Nick always comes out to put on a show but just because the damn judges don't like him doesn't mean he's a bad fighter. I hope when he comes back they give him a tune up fight so he can face Robbie later and I'm confident that Nick Diaz still has everything he needs to get that belt he deserves", 
        "The only clear thing about the Condit fight is that Condit outstruck Diaz in both significant and total strikes, and took a unanimous decision. Not that it really mattered since Diaz was gifted a title shot off the loss anyway, and got steamrolled. ", 
        "That's one way to spin it. The other way is his last win was 5 years ago against an inflated lightweight (featherweight!?).  The only win he has of consequence in today's welterweight picture is against Paul Daley (IMHO).  And I'm not sure that's *that* much of consequence.\n\nAs for the Condit fight you use words like \"clearly\" and \"did not deserve,\" but you MUST know a lot of people disagree with that, so it's not so \"clear\" after all.  \n\nRegardless of all that, just the fact that he's only had 1 fight in the last 3 years is problematic.  Cruz had a boatload of downtime and didn't come back for a title shot, despite absolute domination last time he had been fighting!", 
        "I think a Lawler match makes sense whether or not Diaz has a winstreak or not. He's an ex champion who's held his own against champion level competition for a long time. Also he ktfo'd Lawler in epic fashion", 
        "Both of those dudes are completely different people now, that was 12 years ago.", 
        "If this is really the case, then all signs point to Lawler vs. Woodley, unless Robbie really wants to wait until Fall or Winter for the Rory vs. Wonderboy winner. That might be the best anyways because it seems like everybody is mad at Woodley for trying to get the title shot and Robbie has had so many tough fights he probably needs the time off.", 
        "They're going to cash in on the Diaz hype and give Nick a shot against Lawler the second he's cleared to fight again. I'm calling it right now.", 
        "Well Nick is cleared to fight as early as August 1st which means they could promote a title fight at UFC200 and try to get rollover PPV buys, especially if Nate fights at UFC200 because they're talked about as a unit so much. However, Nick is 0-2-1 in the last 4 years so I hope that if the UFC cares in the slightest bit about it's integrity as a sport that they don't do this.", 
        "They've said that they don't like being on the same card. ", 
        "If they are smart they would make the Diaz vs Lawler fight.", 
        "They'll play on the fact that Nick already has a KO victory over Lawler. I doubt they'll even bring up Nicks record. It would make sense to give him a tune up fight, but the UFC probably wants to cash in on all the attention the Diaz brothers are getting as soon as possible. Conor lost some of his momentum, so they need to make the best of it.", 
        "Lawler is the only champion that's not booked and hasn't fought in the last two month. They need him to co-headline UFC 200. \n\n", 
        "Well there's RDA too and he should be good to go by UFC 200. So hypothetically they could do McGregor defending at featherweight and RDA defending against Khabib/Ferguson winner (kind of a quick turnaround) or Nate Diaz. ", 
        "Poor Lawler. He went from fighting against Conor in UFC 200. An easy fight which will go 1.5 m at least, to fighting against Woodley, a guy nobody cares about, and whose biggest win was the scale against Hendricks", 
        "On the bright side, if he shuts down the takedown and tools him on the feet like Rory did and like most people suspect he will, that's an easy fight for him and respite for his brain. It will only build hype for  bigger matchups down the line although the McGregor fight is probably gone for good now. ", 
        "Nate not moving up to WW full time is for the best but I do think he needs to actually step out from under Nick's shadow somewhat to really take his career to the next level", 
        "I agree with him... Kind of. \n\n\nNate needs to stay at LW.  He should push for a title shot.  Conor was going to get it and he beat Conor...  So why not? \n\nAs for Nick... I agree he should fight at 170, but I have no ambition to see him vs GSP again.  Especially not for both of their comeback fights. \n\nI want to see Nick make a serious run at the WW belt.  I'd like to see him vs Rory, Woodley, Wonderboy, or even Hendricks. \n\nIf he can get a win or two, I'd love to see the Lawler rematch.  But an immediate title shot just wouldn't make any sense. His last win was 5 years ago and he's on a 3 fight losing skid.  He needs to re-establish himself before he gets another title shot. ", 
        "Or you set up lawler vs nate, nate loses, and then nick vs lawler for brotherly revenge!", 
        "Was it Matt Serra who recently talked about how the Diaz's were old school in that they followed a code?  It is so nice to see Nate being able to laugh at Bieber, criticism criticism of MacGregor for tapping, AND talk about not playing in his bros' sandbox?", 
        "I don't wanna see nate at 170. To many big wrestlers up there for him. He's a true 155 er and that's where he should stay. Still plenty of good fights there for him. Pettis springs to mind, good name recognition and a fun fight to watch", 
        "Nate wants the fights but he always makes sure to give respect to his brother which is well-deserved.  As rough around the edges as they are, they've got a ton of admirable traits.\n\nHe's playing a little coy because now he's the man of the hour, but if he puts a push on for it over the next week, it'll happen.  Looks like GSP/Firas want it too, how could it not?", 
        "Yea, because as good as Nate is GSP and Lawler would both put an ungodly beatdown on him. ", 
        "Word. I love Nate to death but I really don't need to see him get pummeled by Robbie", 
        "Couldn't agree more. The lad is a talented fighter but despite what he says about those being Nick's fights he would get ruined by both these two, and knows it", 
        "Nah he definitely doesn't think he'll get ruined. Nate is the type of dude that thinks he has a chance in every fight...and quite frankly, he typically does. He just wants to set up his brother for big money fights. ", 
        "I don't think that's what he's saying at all. I don't think Nate is that type of fighter - even when he's getting dominated he thinks he can win. I think he's saying  that Nick has faced them before and they are two big paydays for his brother. ", 
        "I know we all love the Diaz bros but Nick hasn't won a fight in nearly 5 years. He hardly deserves to be mentioned in the WW title picture at this time.", 
        "Diaz won the **fight** against Condit however he lost the point mma match.\n\nDiaz comes to fight and finish and he is one of the best fighters of all time. The UFC pits the best fighter vs the best fighter and, Nick Diaz win or lose is one of the best.", 
        "In what way did Diaz win the 'fight'? He was comprehensively outstruck. ", 
        "He also hasn't lost in 3 years", 
        "he's a Diaz brother, his fight matters", 
        "This is the rational conclusion that everyone will ignore because the Diaz hype train has shot back into the stratosphere in the last month. If Nick comes back and throws down I'm all for it, but there are a lot of guys who deserve a WW shot before him. ", 
        "This sentiment has actually been said here pretty often lately. Unless I was reading the wrong posts", 
        "I'd love to see him come back and wreck someone outside the top 15", 
        "Very true. But first off the UFC might not care about that. And second, if Nick does come back and wins a tune up fight or two then Nate's logic may still hold up. Also if Robbie fights at 200 and the UFC gives Nick a fight as soon as he comes back, he is not going to be fighting Lawler unless the guy wants to fight about a month after his last one", 
        "I think given the hype he generates and his previous win over Robbie, at he needs is one good win over a WW contender and they'll give him the shot. That's provided Robbie stays the champ!", 
        "totally. If Nick looks good in even one comeback fight they might very well give him a title shot. But I agree that he should have at least one fight before Robbie. I'd be happy to see him have at least two, personally and I fucking love Nick", 
        "While this is true, all of those fights were guys fighting very defensively and were won via pointing fighting decisions. I personally have nothing against it, but the UFC can easily sell the idea of Nick never losing a war and against a guy like Lawler, we know we'll be getting an all out war ", 
        "Not to mention he KOd Lawler...", 
        "12 years ago.", 
        "Definitely eons ago, but that would be more of a direct selling point for fans than \"Nick never losing a war\"", 
        "> Nick hasn't won a fight in nearly 5 years\n\nlol what? The way you phrased it makes it sound like he's been on a very long streak of losing for 5 years. His troubles are what kept him unable to fight for long periods of time. In hist last 14 fights, he won 11, almost all by finishes. His only 3 losses in those were decisions, not finishes, and they were against some of the greatest fighters ever: GSP, Silva, and Condit. His Silva loss was also overturned and is an NC now, so he's got only 2 losses in 14.\n\n", 
        "> In hist last 14 fights, he won 11, almost all by finishes. His only 3 losses in those were decisions, not finishes, and they were against some of the greatest fighters ever: GSP, Silva, and Condit.\n\nHis Strikeforce/Dream fights aren't exactly elite competition. He fought a couple good guys, but you can't just throw out numbers like that. He hasn't finished anybody since coming back to the UFC, and his only win is against BJ Penn.\n\nI love Nick but he for sure needs to beat someone in the top ten. ", 
        "Lol you can't just throw out numbers like that?, I guess the same goes for mcgregor and his high finishing rate cause most of them came from below average competition", 
        "I mean he has finishes over top guys in the UFC including one of the greatest ever. It's not exactly the same situation. Hell, I even think it's fine to include some of Nick's wins before his return to the UFC like Paul Daley. That is legit as fuck. But those numbers are overly inflated.  ", 
        "> His Strikeforce/Dream fights aren't exactly elite competition\n\nExcept this is not an argument of elite competition right now. I'm responding to OP who said Nick hasn't won in 5 years, a sentence that gives a negative view of Nick's impressive record. \n\n> He hasn't finished anybody since coming back to the UFC\n\nMaybe because he fought possibly the greatest fighters in the history of the sport: GSP and Anderson? You expect him to finish them? Or Condit, one of the greatest welterweights in MMA history? Even in those fights that he lost, he pressed the action and controlled a lot of the standup. Heck, even his sole UFC win is against the arguably greatest LW of all time. And Nick demolished him.\n\n**BJ, Silva, GSP and Condit**, all in a row. Show me another fighter who fights competition this elite. To say that \"not finishing\" those legends counts *against* Nick Diaz is absurd.", 
        ">To say that \"not finishing\" those legends counts against Nick Diaz is absurd.\n\nOf those fights, he won one. He wasn't just \"not finishing,\" he was losing them.  And BJ Penn was already well past his prime and fighting up a division, yes?  I mean, are you going to tell me Dan Henderson deserved a HW shot because he beat Fedor?  I would hope not.\n\nDo I think Diaz is a top 10, possibly top 5 WW, sure?  Do I think he should have to actually prove himself and not be gifted a title shot in an incredibly muddy division?  YES.\n\nGive him a warm-up against Gunnar Nelson or something and then set him up with a title eliminator against Condit. He's got a score to settle with that guy, right?\n\nMeanwhile Woodley can get the title shot he was promised, Rory and Thompson can get lined up for the next one and hopefully Maia can get beat, maybe by Matt Brown, maybe by someone else (Hendricks?).", 
        "It doesn't count against him. But he sure as shit shouldn't be in the title picture or in a conversation with Lawler is the point. It doesn't matter if you faced tough guys and lost...you still lost.", 
        "> Nick hasn't won in 5 years, a sentence that gives a negative view of Nick's impressive record\n\nIt gives a negative view of his recent record. Which is not impressive enough to earn a title shot. He needs to beat a WW contender to earn a shot.", 
        "> lol what?\n\nHow could I phrase a short sentence that's a fact any other way? Regardless of his troubles (which are still his fault) he absolutely does not deserve to be mentioned in the title picture until he beats a contender.", 
        "Losing streak or not, he *at the very least* needs to win at least 1 fucking fight against a top 10 opponent.  Yeah, he's only lost twice (well...3 times if you count Silva) against top guys, but the last time he beat a top 10 opponent was maybe Paul Daley if you ranked him in the top 10 at the time (he was outside of the top 10 on Sherdog at the time).  \n\nHe hasn't beaten a top 10 opponent in nearly 10 years.  He retires after every loss.  He's full of excuses when he loses.  He can't be bothered to show up to press conferences (which are for the fans).  He can't be bothered to put the weed down for a couple days to avoid suspension.\n\nI like Nate, but Nick is just wasting away his prime years right now.  People really need to stop enabling his bullshit.  Make him fucking earn his way back.  He deserves nothing at this point.", 
        "and the Silva fight was pretty damn close too.", 
        "That is so cool. Nate won from Conor a rematch with RDA. Nate and Conor both said it. This could be 200, RDA V.S. Diaz/Conor V.S a midget. Now there is no pressure on Robbie to fight sooner than he has to. \n\nGSP wants fun fights. He can avenge his guy Rory, because let's face it, Rory should have looked for an opponent to prove why he deserves that number one postion. Choosing a dangerous opponent in a Stephen Thompson. He is the number two contender, 6 win-streak, karate kid personified of the welterweight division. Wonderboy will eat Rory alive if his powers keep progressing. \n\nI mean did you see that Hendricks fight. Big Rig came out nice and shiny, and that damn karate kid dented up my ride. After that fight you have to respect the moves of Stephen Thompson. \n\nOr GSP wants fun fights he's definitely got one in the new Champ Nick Diaz. Say What?!?\n\nIn August, a rematch against an old opponent in Nick Diaz emerges. Robbie would secure his legacy as champion by thrashing Nick, Or Nick will dethrone Robbie, setting up an epic event, a welterweight bout between Champion Nick Diaz and Champion GSP in an epic superafight. \n\nAlso on the main event is a different rematch, history is restored as defending featherweight champion, Conor McGregor, fights lightweight champion, Nate Diaz. Conor ensures fans with his recent title defense against a midget of his choosing.\n\nI predict the true featherweight and lightweight defense of Nate and Nick securing his Legacy as a GOAT. Retiring as these NorCal boys finally hit UFC Gold.\n\nTL;DR UFC 209 Motherfucker", 
        "gsp beat nick though lawler is the fight for nick ", 
        "Nick wants no part of GSP. He should have kept talking shit and getting the fuck out of dodge just when GSP starts to take notice.", 
        "Nick hasn't won a fight since 2011. It would be fucking ridiculous if they let him near the title. Not to mention, no desire to see GSP destroy him again and then him make excuses.", 
        "My kid brother never showed me that respect, especially when it came to women", 
        "I'm glad Nate is getting reined back on welterweight fights. Probably by his brother but good regardless. Fighting bigger guys might not work out for him. \n\nI'm not sure uncle Dana was serious about the Robbie Lawler fight anyway. I think he said that fight makes sense so it supported the argument (excuse) that Nate was so much bigger than Conor.", 
        "GSP was at 196 because he's a fan of MMA and wanted to see mcgreggor live ? ", 
        "I would pay to see Nick and Nate vs GSP and Lawler in a tag team match or a no holds barred match. \n\nOr Nate vs Gsp and Nick vs Lawler on the same card\n\nthose would be a needle mover ", 
        "I'd rather watch Nick vs Robbie anyways, just my opinion. Nate would be fun to watch fight frankie i think!", 
        "Close decisions...  yup RDS just barely by a hair beat him....", 
        "but I really don't want to see Nate vs. RDA 2", 
        "the most obvious fight here is Nate vs Nick", 
        "I can't help but feel the universe would implode at that point. ", 
        "Nick vs. Robbie 2, been waiting for that forever. Damn right Nick can pull it off... again. Both of those guys are awesome. ", 
        "I've been waiting for Robbie Lawler vs. Nick Diaz for 10 years....", 
        "Let's see Nate and Nick fight at 170 then.  ", 
        "How has Nick earned the GSP fight?", 
        "You need to earn a fight with a guy who hasn't fought in 2+ years?", 
        "C'mon man...UFC ditched 'deserve' and 'earned' as criteria for a fight a long time ago.  Marketability for PPV sales is the only criteria the UFC gives a damn about.", 
        "Yeah that's true :/", 
        "Diaz v Diaz :)", 
        "Imagine how much fun a Nate vs Nick Diaz fight would be.  It would never happen, but it would be like the Klitschkos fighting.", 
        "And Gomi wasn't?", 
        "Completely different circumstances. Nate is saying that GSP and Lawler are Nick's fights, because there's a good posibility of Nick fighting them again and he doesn't want to take away Nick's potential payday. There wasn't a chance that Nick and Gomi would go at it a second time around.", 
        "Duck,  duck,  duck...  Don't be scared,  homie", 
        "I'm reading this as I'm a scared lil bitch , who knows Montreal owns the 209.....GSP already whooped your bros and Jake's asses, time for Stockton to offer up another ass on the altar of GSP's greatness! ", 
        "Wow you're such a tough guy, huh? Calling professional fighters \"scared lil bitches\" on reddit is as hardcore as it gets. ", 
        "The 514 owns the 209...2 and 0! Cold Hard Facts taste so delicious, no one wants to see RDA vs Nate wrestle fuck 50-45 UD for the king of free tv belt; we've already seen it, it was boring as hell!!! ", 
        "Nate has a big brother complex. Nick doesn't have some inherent right to those welterweight fights. Nate should campaign for them without feeling as if he's taking something away from his brother. There's no big money at lightweight besides a McGregor rematch. ", 
        "That'd be kind of like stealing your brother's girl at the bar though. Sure, you *could* do it, but you don't, because it would be a dick move. \n\nI think Nate/Pettis sells well, and Nate/Ferguson would be sick too. Or bring in a small 170 like Gunnar Nelson.\n\n\n", 
        "It's not stealing your brother's girl. Nick Diaz doesn't have an inherent right to the GSP or Lawler fights. Nick doesn't own the rights to those match-ups, nor should Nate remove himself from those potential fights for fear of perceived slight against big brother. They are anyone's matchup and Nate has just as much right as Nick to them.", 
        "Nick has a history with GSP (including a decision he thought he got screwed over on), and he beat Lawler in a very heated fight way back in the day (that many fans are clamoring for a rematch for). \n\nIf Nate fought either of those guys, it would be more like going after his brother's ex-girlfriend... sure, technically she's her own person and back on the market. But if Nick is thinking about getting back with her, then Nate can respect that and lay off.", 
        "As I've already said, that Nick can more easily maneuver into those fights does not mean he has the right to those fights anymore than anyone else. He does not own those matchups.", 
        "As I've already said, neither of you own that ex-girlfriend. Slavery is illegal, afterall. But you still don't bone your boy's ex-girlfriend, regardless... I'm guessing you don't have many bros. ", 
        "Way to set up a strawman that has absolutely zero bearing on the discussion. What preposterously asinine logic that is to say one brother may never again fight the man that the other brother defeated. It's the sort of bone-headed logic you would use to try and justify something that sentimentally feels right but has no real rationale behind it.\n\nThere is zero problem with Nate fighting Lawler while Nick is suspended. No one is betraying anyone.", 
        "There's no real problem here. Nobody is proposing an actual ban on Nate fighting those people. It's just that one brother (Nate) doesn't feel comfortable taking the fights that his other brother (Nick) wants and has a history with. \n\nIf Nate got those fights against GSP or Robbie first, and then lost, then by default people aren't think Nick would do very well against them. The brothers are so stylistically similar that people are bound to draw those conclusions. Or in the event that Nate wins, then people would automatically less hyped to see Nick fight those guys, since his lighter brother already did it first.\n\nI would assume Nick has been looking forward to, and talking about, these bouts for quite some time. And Nate probably isn't going to take that away from him, because that's just how people handle their shit.. or whatever. The fights don't even make as much sense for Nate, because he is a lightweight, not a welterweight. ", 
        "You just said the situation is like boning an ex-girlfriend and that...*you still don't bone your boy's ex-girlfriend, regardless*\n\nThat's literally saying Nate should not fight a man that his brother beat. That's ridiculous. This is an argument of principle. No fight belongs or is reserved to any fighter until they get it - least of all a fighter on suspension. And it does not matter that Nick has history with GSP or Lawler. They are NOT his fights. They do not belong to anyone and there is no reason to feel guilty if one brother takes it over the other. I've been telling you the same thing over and over again. That one brother can more easily maneuver into the fight than the other does not mean it is reserved for him.\n\nIt does nothing more than expose the increasing hypocrisy of this line of thinking. The president of the promotion publicly stated that he's angling towards Nate-Lawler. What happens if Nick fights him? Nate gets screwed out of a payday. So should neither Nick or Nate fight Lawler because they are both worried about damaging the other's fight? This is silly talk. It's a clear big brother complex and Nate should understand he's his own man.", 
        "Yes, either one of the Diaz brothers *could* fight these guys. Just like they both fought Takanori Gomi. It wouldn't be breaking any rules or be treated as some scandalous thing.\n\nBut you don't really seem to understand the human relationships at play here, or how Nate *wants* his brother to get those matchups. Like yeah, Nate could bang Nick's ex-girlfriend... but he values his brother's feelings more than he wants the girl (AKA the GSP/Lawler matchup). That's why he's not going to pursue it.\n\nAlso, that ex-girlfriend would be someone that Nick stands a good chance of getting back together with, and who isn't even in the same weight class at Nate. I think you're seeing this from more of a black/white legal stand-point where it's really a social issue.", 
        "Dude what don't you get. Nate Said those are nicks fights.  So obviously nick has been planning on coming back and taking one of those fights if not both of them. Nate Being a teammate and brother to nick wouldn't go take those fights, that's not how it works when your a team. If your brother or teammate wants a certain fight then you try and help him get it anyway you can. Like a good teammate should do.", 
        "Repeating his statements back to me is not nearly as effective as you seem to think. Lawler and GSP are NOT Nick's fights. They are no one's fights except for the one who gets them. And BTW, these cheap logic of : *If your brother or teammate wants a certain fight then you try and help him get it anyway you can.* works both ways. This the exact sort of dissociative thinking that unravels at the seems and makes no sense.", 
        "Maybe cause those fights are in nicks weight class and not nates.", 
        "> Nate has a big brother complex.\n\nYou are either a single child or your family sucks balls. Having respect for your siblings is not a complex of any kind. It's a normal thing that happens with family when you are close and support each other.", 
        "Having loyalty is not the same as big brother complex.", 
        "he's part of a team, he doesn't want to make bank at the expense of taking opportunities away from his family. If Jake was still in the UFC and Nick in SF, he would have said those are Jake's fights. ", 
        "It's a big brother complex if ever I saw one. Nate wants the biggest fights but doesn't want to step on toes. Well he isn't stepping on anyone's toes. Nick does not have the opportunity to fight Lawler. He is suspended. And were he not, it's not as if Lawler is Nick's fight. Lawler is free to fight anyone including Nate.", 
        "Nick's suspension is done in August though, otherwise I would have agreed with you. Nick can actually get that fight at the same time it would be available for Nate pretty much.", 
        "You are ignoring the main crux of the argument - which is that Nick has no inherent right to the Lawler or GSP matches. They are free to fight anyone in the field and Nate is part of the field. There has been no agreement that upon the end of Nick's suspension, he has the first-rights to the Lawler and GSP. Nate is not taking anything off of Nick's table. They were never on his table to begin with. He would have to get his way into the fight same as anyone. That he would have an easier time maneuvering into those fights does not mean he \"owns\" the fight more than anyone else including Nate.", 
        "I know what you're saying but if you've ever been a part of a fight team then you would understand what i'm talking about and you would understand where nate is coming from. Besides, from Lawler's perspective Nick is the bigger money fight and he gets to avenge a loss. ", 
        "You are still not addressing any of my points, but instead are falling back on to the very same illusory sense of loyalty that I am critiquing. Once again, Nick does not deserve the Lawler fight nor has he earned the Lawler fight any more or less than Nate. Whoever gets the fight gets the fight, and no brother has robbed the other.", 
        "Nick will get any fight he wants. Title fight or super fight it doesn't matter. When your a legend in mma you get the fights u ask for and the money you ask for. Nick is a legend whether you like him or not. He puts people in the seats. That's all that matters", 
        "You haven't even addressed the topic.", 
        "I am addressing your point. Your point was that Nate wouldn't be stepping on Nick's toes if he fought Lawler at 170 because he was suspended - then I said Nick's suspension is up in August which is around the same time either could get that fight. Hence Nate would be stepping on Nick's toes. You also said it that Nick wouldn't be getting that fight, Nick can definitely get the Lawler fight, it's easy to market a rematch with a big name. \n\nThe point is about values. Nate cares more about loyalty to his team, about what is best for his team than what is best financially for him. It's likely that he believes what is best for his team is what is best for him. What i'm saying is that youre arguing for Nate to betray some of his core values. It would be disloyal for Nate to go into Nick's division and take opportunities that could go to his brother. Much in the same way that it would have been disloyal for Nick to take the Mcgregor fight before Nate after his callout. If you can't understand what it means to be loyal to your team, then there is no point in discussing further. ", 
        "I feel like I am talking to a wall. I have repeatedly stated that Nick Diaz does not have any right or reservation to the Lawler fight. This is a simple fact. Anyone can fight Lawler. It's Lawler vs. the field. There is no confirmation or agreement or contract that states Nick Diaz will or should fight Lawler upon the end of his suspension. I do not see how you could possibly misinterpret this.\n\nThat having been hopefully established (at last), we move onto the point that if Nick Diaz has no right to the fight, then Nate Diaz taking the fight has not robbed Nick Diaz of any meaningful pursuit. It was never Nick's to begin with. It is an open contest, not a highway robbery. And I feel the need to repeat myself again: *That one brother can more easily maneuver into the fight does not give him the right or sense of ownership towards that fight*. You do not own a matchup or reserve the rights to particular fighters.\n\nAnd I never said Nate should betray his values. I am pointing out the fact that the axioms which shape his values are based on an illusory big brother complex that manifests itself regardless of reason or rational thought. It is neither disloyalty nor betrayal - only the misguided perception of disloyalty and betrayal - one which you seem to hold as well. \n\nNate has not betrayed Nick. He has not been disloyal to Nick and he has taken nothing from Nick. Nick had no right to fight Lawler. Nate had no right to fight McGregor. Either can fight either without a logical fear of reproach or some bizarre accusation of familial disloyalty. This is not a matter of values - you only fool yourself into thinking it so. ", 
        "I don't understand why people talk shit on him tapping. Diaz is *top tier on the ground, he wasn't getting out of that and going asleep proves nothing.", 
        "> I don't understand why people talk shit on him tapping\n\nBecause they're literally retarded. I mean people with actual learning difficulties who watch 3 fights a year and don't train.", 
        "Going back to an interview that McGregor did (can't find source) but he was talking smack about pussies who tap out too soon. I honestly think that is why people are making comments.", 
        "It has to do with Connor. Didn't he say himself he would rather die than tap? Shit talk like that will get you reaction when you loose. ", 
        "I remember him saying that he feels regret for tapping the first time he got submitted, and that he would rather go out than tap out again. Only rational reason for giving him shit is because he's not backing up his words. It's fine to tap, but don't act like you won't.", 
        "I've always been told in jj that not tapping and blacking out can actually decrease the amount of time it takes for you to black out from a choke in the future. I don't know if this is actually true or not, but chokes feel shitty enough as is. I don't blame him for tapping. ", 
        "I've heard the same thing too, but I can't imagine who actually measured that or when.", 
        "Me neither. I'd still rather just not black out in the first place, true or not lol. ", 
        "that sounds like very bad practice...", 
        "Because the fight before that, the BW womens champ went out swinging. Conor, the ultimate shit-talker and tough guy tapped. ", 
        "Yeah except Holly had gotten out of it in an earlier round, it wasnt as locked in and she wasnt flattened out. Conor was 100% going out within 6-10 seconds because of his cirumstances and the fact that the guy choking him was a BJJ black belt with the most subs in the UFC, Holm had a chance to get out of it and just went to sleep before she could tap because of how fast blood chokes work. \n\nI can see why people are comparing the two subs on a superficial level, but when you delve in deeper the two situations were very different. ", 
        "Regardless, people are wondering why people are talking shit. The answer is there. ", 
        "I always view not tapping as lack of understanding of a ground game. Holly had no fucking idea what was going on, which I think showed when she started shadow boxing whilst going out. Conor knew what was happening, knew he couldn't get out and tapped. Getting choked out is not clever in anyway shape or form, it's like standing and trading with Robbie Lawler.", 
        "Oh I absolutely agree, I just figured I'd answer his question since he seemed unsure why people were talking shit, but there is an answer to his question and more people should understand that. ", 
        "> Holly had no fucking idea what was going on\n\nDo you really think the  (ex) women's bantamweight ufc champion doesn't know what a RNC is or how it feels like or when it's deep or not? ...", 
        "Not knowing what a choke is and not knowing what is going on as you are being choked are two different things.", 
        "> I always view not tapping as lack of understanding of a ground game.\n\nI think renzo gracie probably understood what would happen when sakuraba put a kimura on him and he refused to tap. For some people it's just a pride thing, especially with chokes.", 
        "Standing and trading with Lawler is like mud wrestling with a pig, except the mud is punches.", 
        "And the pig is also punches. \n\n", 
        "and the punches are bad for your head", 
        "Hahahhaa", 
        "The worst thing is that people are making fun of him saying he needs to work on his RNC escape. There are very very few ways to get out of it, that's why they're so powerful. Ad against a Diaz, or anyone with a choke that tight, the only escape is to take your hand and touch off his arm or the mat. Repeat until he lets go or the ref steps in. If you think there is a fighter in the UFC below LHW that can just slip out of a choke like that, you're a fucking idiot and should not be allowed speak of MMA. Conor's mistake was way before that. As many coaches say they get asked how to escape a submission. And the answer is always the same. At the very latest, your escape should begin at the same time as the submission. Otherwise you screwed.  ", 
        "In the words of Kurt Osiander, \"If you're in this position, you fucked up a long time ago!\" ", 
        "Also: \"Don't bring any queers in here.\"", 
        "because he(connor) talked mad shit. So now people are enjoying his loss. Whats so hard to understand? Doesn't actually matter tap or not what matters is he lost and people want to shit on him. Any reason will do. He also hilariously said he wouldn't tap. Connor is a big boy he can handle it. ", 
        "On top of that, they argue that tapping to a choke is more cheap than tapping to a joint lock. It's ridiculous. Probably because Nate tapped against Franca. ", 
        "A common theme I've noticed in fight fans is people valuing their own entertainment before the well-being of the fighter and then getting offended when the fighters feel differently. It's pure entitlement and selfishness.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I expect people to have enough self-awareness not to get genuinely offended that other people aren't destroying their bodies to satisfy their blood lust.", 
        "It's a test of wills and skills. Bodily harm is part and parcel but not the point of it. That's like saying the burnt rubber smell is the point of nascar racing. ", 
        "If a fighter says they never tap into think they're dumb. You're armbarred for example...having your arm snapped doesn't make you tough it makes you stupid. You just fucked with your livelihood and your longetivity in the sport. Plus it changes nothing with the outcome. Chokes are a bit safer but still....why", 
        "Who was it that said if they made their MMA career and in the face decisions based on how the fans feel at any given moment, they'd be broke and brain damaged by now? I know it was someone pretty relevant just can't remember who it was now. They said this within the last six months. It so true though.", 
        "Like Tsegen said, Conor mentioned he's willing to die in there and tapped. ", 
        "I'm not sure if he ever said something like he would rather die than tap out, in which case calling him out on it is fine. What I know for sure is he talked about you have to be prepared to kill or die when you step into the octagon, which is not the same as \"I'll die in there before tapping\". Now that said, as much as I love Conor, I don't mind some shittalk going his way, so I don't really care, just felt like pointing this out.", 
        "Yeah for sure man. Worth pointing out.", 
        "I remember hearing Rogan talk about how every time you tap, you're basically saying,\"If this was a fight to the death, I just died.\"  I hate conor with an unhealthy passion, but even I didn't think he was a bitch for tapping. He figuratively died in there.", 
        "I think it's most common among casuals... The hardcore fans don't give a fuck if a guy taps or sleeps.", 
        "Don't ever call a casual fan a casual...they'll act like you kicked their dog or something. ", 
        "Someone you consider a casual fan may not consider themselves as such though, that's when they get annoyed...\n", 
        "Meh. Just because someone doesn't consider themselves casual doesn't mean they aren't. And it's not necessarily a bad thing, it just implies a lower level of interest.", 
        "And/or Conor specifically talked about never tapping and \"dying in there\" and made fun of other fighters who quit to fight another day.", 
        "Well, he did \"die\" , and whether the refs stops it because he taps or goes limp doesn't change anything. He wouldn't be dead if he didn't tap", 
        "Ah, the simulated death theory. Very astute of you, good sir. ", 
        "Can you or someone link the video?", 
        "I'm on mobile. The comments about fighters quitting and fighting again are about Donald Cerrone and googling that  should show it. His never tap comments I think are older. ", 
        "That's obviously not where most of it is coming from. Most people were not aware of that interview after the fight. It was posted ad nauseum in the post fight thread that Conor tapped like a bitch. Also, a bunch of people posted how impressed they were with Holly not tapping so most people seem to think not tapping is badass or something. ", 
        "this is the first time i've ever seen this type of thing a hot topic around here at least, so we're just holding him to what he said. i don't understand why its considered shit talk to point that out. i still consider the weigh in punch much more scummy but whatever. ", 
        "> this is the first time i've ever seen this type of thing a hot topic around here at least\n\nI'm glad you missed the \"jesus didn't tap\" era. \n\nAs I said in my first post, I don't think most people are holding Conor to what he said because I don't think most people knew he said that when they first made the comments. And the majority of the comments were praising not tapping as being badass, which has nothing to do with what he said.", 
        "It's just popular to turn on a fighter once they get too big these days. ", 
        "\"We want MMA to become more mainstream and fighters to get paid more, but if you are good enough to sell your fights, which also gets a lot of publicity to MMA in general, fuck you.\"\n\nIt's such a ridiculous mindset to have. Not liking fighters like Conor and Ronda is fine, but hoping for them to lose their momentum is like hoping for MMA to stop growing in popularity.", 
        "I agree. I'm actually a big fan of them both, even after they both lost. But it's hipsterism. Which was alive and well before we started throwing around the word hipster. It's been happening to bands for decades. \n\nThis moment is actually what makes MMA so great and why I love it so much more than I ever loved boxing. *Nobody makes it out*. You can't duck fights (although Conor could have ducked fighting Nate at 170, he had the fucking balls to do it just like Nate had the balls to take the fight on 10 days notice). There's so many ways to lose. \n\nIMO we should all be celebrating. ", 
        "I can confidently say that anyone who says not tapping is badass has never grappled. When it's locked in, it's locked in and you're either tapping out or going out, nothing is going to change it.", 
        "Chuck Liddell would disagree. Not that I agree with Chuck on that one though. I'm all for tapping.", 
        "I had a buddy do it once. I just wanted to know what it felt like. \n\nI was dumb. You should always tap the second you realize you can't get out.", 
        ">I can confidently say that anyone who says not tapping is badass has never grappled.\n\nLike notorious non bad-asses helio & renzo gracie", 
        "Not tapping is just being too proud to admit you've been got, and one thing you can for sure say about most Gracies is that they are too proud. \n\nThe difference between Connor tapping and not tapping with that choke is 2-3 more seconds of consciousness, you don't get out in that spot. ", 
        ">and one thing you can for sure say about most Gracies is that they are too proud. \n\nI agree, but you said with that anyone with that mentality doesn't grapple when it's not really the case. Some people are just prideful, or dicks, experience doesn't always factor into it.", 
        "I think it's pretty badass when they're fighting to escape over tapping, but the thing about blood chokes is that they can put you out inside of 8 seconds, so sometimes the individual doesn't even *have a chance* to tap. So if it looks like they're actually resisting the tap in order to fight it, that's pretty badass. But just going to sleep asap is wild enough as it is without judging the loser either way. \n\nPersonally, the fact that Conor tapped as fast as he did is commendable, because it reflects his quick mindedness in understanding that done is done, and just going ahead and conceding without unnecessary extras.", 
        "i am a huge fan of conner as an entertainer and i get him saying stuff like that for the hype. What i dont get is people getting butt hurt that Conner has to eat his words now. Thats psrt of the game the bigger shit you talk the bigger the shit you eat . Prime example is Ronda . ", 
        "Right, as I've said until I'm blue in the face: Conor wants you to feel that way. That's why he has his persona, it's about making fans who want to see him win and people who want to see him lose\n\nIf people just didn't give a shit he failed at his job.\n\nThis is just the other side of the equation and he seems to have realized that. It's the fans getting butthurt.", 
        "Your repeated mis-spelling of his name kind of calls into question your claim that you're a \"huge fan\" :)", 
        "Ah thanks, saved me from needing to call him out on that lol", 
        "Dude, Rhonda and Conner are the biggest draws in the UFC. What'd you expect? :)", 
        "I never really understood how is this possible to fuck up, epsecially if you claim to be a fan of not even just Conor's, but the MMA in general. If he would be some random new fighter who is not even ranked, sure. If he would have a name like Joanna, sure. But how on earth can you fuck up Conor McGregor and Ronda fucking Rousey? Seriously.", 
        "That's why I try to be humble in life. My samples of feces are generally quite acceptable, *and* I get to not judge people all the goddamn time. All around, pretty positive lifestyle. [8/10] would life again.", 
        "Connor's response to losing is infinitely better than Ronda's.", 
        "Legitimate question, I stayed out of that whole media cycle: what was Rousey's response to losing?", 
        "Pretty much media black out. Then coming out and saying she was suicidal and the only reason she is still alive is that she has to have Travis Browne's kids. I actually like Ronda, but those kids will be fucked up.", 
        "1000 times better . He is still somewhat humble while talking shit which is not easy to pull off.", 
        "Yeah im willing to bet thats the main reason.", 
        "I think the main reason is they saw Holly go out in the fight before, and she's been praised going out like a warrior. Common fans don't understand the difference in situation, though. ", 
        "I still don't even see that. That flailing right before she goes out looks more like a tap than a punch to me it was just too late.", 
        "I've had someone cinch in a tight RNC like that and not tapped soon enough.  It's not smart, and didn't prove anything other than getting choked out gives you a headache.  If it's deep and I know it, I'm tapping right away, just as Conor was right to do.  Nobody is getting out of a choke like that from Nate.", 
        "There is nothing that could have made Conor anymore fucked than he was in that choke. It was fully locked and he was totally flattened right out, there was no getting out of it. It's not like it was a Sage tap this was a 100% you are going to sleep inside of 10 seconds choke. ", 
        "Yeah going to sleep doesn't prove anything.", 
        "I think it does after all that shit talk.", 
        "It proves that cutting off air and/or blood supply to the brain makes you lose consciousness.  That's it.  Nobody should let that happen to themselves on purpose.", 
        "It proves that you back up all the shit talk you did like saying you would never tap.", 
        "That's called selling fights.  He says nothing like that after the fights.  \n\nIf you think never tapping is a thing, then I'm guessing you haven't been on a mat in a compromising position.", 
        ">I'm guessing you haven't been on a mat in a compromising position.\n\nI'm a blue belt, I've been put to sleep, I know how it feels.\n\n>That's called selling fights. He says nothing like that after the fights. \n\n\nHe is like that, being a douchebag shit talker is part of his personality. Believe what you want, but if you think that's all just an act you are worng, you can't act like that an not have that be a part of your personality.", 
        "You're a blue belt and you advocate not tapping?  I suppose you're so badass that you never tap, right Bro?  \n\nHonestly, you're just coming off as a salty hater here.  Just as bad as the conor nut huggers in my book.  ", 
        "If anything at the end of the day I think it could make him look worse. Not only did he lose but he got put to sleep? With all the pictures and images of that in peoples heads? I think thatd hurt his image and the mystique around him even more than just tapping tbh. Getting put to sleep is pretty vunerable looking. I think tapping there was the right move and it isnt any less ballsy then him just getting put to sleep in a number of seconds. ", 
        "it's because 75% of mma fans have never really trained bjj and haven't ever felt what it's like to be completely exhausted to the point of nausea and then have someone cut the oxygen off to your brain while simultaneously crushing your trachea. ", 
        "I disagree, I do know how it feels like and I still think it was kind of \"cowardish\" (is that a word?) for him to tap out after all the shit talking he did. Everyone that trains bjj has seen someone get put out or have experienced being choked out, it's not a big deal.", 
        "Any choke or submission takes a lot of willpower alone to not tap, and that's just in grappling.", 
        "Not to mention getting rained on by punches in the process. ", 
        "Oh, and add \"having the weight of the guy who just punched you silly on top of you\" to the whole getting choked out thing. I remember tapping during second BJJ lesson because <200lbs of solid Polish motherfucker nearly crushed me, even before he had the rear naked locked in.", 
        "Yup, reminds me of all the shit talkers when Sage tapped. Saw so many posts saying \"who taps to arm triangle from half guard?\"\n\nAnyone saying that clearly has not trained bjj or at least never been up against someone who can choke you the fuck out even if they're in your half guard. For a while I thought I was safe from rear naked choke as long as I hang on to one arm until I experienced people good at one handed rear naked chokes. \n\n\n\n", 
        "and on top of having strep throat cant even imagine the feeling of getting choked while having that!!", 
        "i train too, i found it strange he tapped to that and especially so quick, ive never been tapped from half guard from that choke, trained 3 years, only a blue belt talking here but, its hard to apply pressure from there, i dont even bother trying it unless im mounted. when i read he had strep throat it made a lot more sense. ive been rear naked one armed plenty of times", 
        "Check out the von flue choke. Shoulder pressure is key to finish these chokes. ", 
        "Yeah... No.  \nThere's definitely possibilities of arm triangles from half guard.  \nI pull them from bottom half.  \n", 
        "Go watch the Gracie breakdown on that fight", 
        "These situations are not even close to comparable. The large vocal majority calling out Sage on twitter were in fact fellow professional mma fighters. ", 
        "Thanks for making me feel like a hardass for taking like... 2 months of BJJ classes.", 
        "Easily up that number to 95%", 
        "Being on the other end isn't fun either. I got scared when I choked out a dude once. He started snoring with his eyes open.", 
        "When it's locked in deep, there's no escape, and you can feel life floating away... \n\nAll these fucks would tap if Diaz got his hooks in like that even if they weren't tired or hurt. ", 
        "Hey lets be honest if he just got hooks in I probably tap before he can put the choke in so I get to keep my neck", 
        "I wouldn't blame you. Not one little bit.", 
        "When I roll and someone successfully takes my back for the rnc, I have to stop myself from tapping as soon as they get hooks in.  \n\nThe only reason I wait, is so my coach won't judge me too hard.\n\nThat being said, if Nate Diaz put his hand on my shoulder, I would probably tap. Ya know, just to be sure.", 
        "I've never been in the same room as him but I know some guys who've trained with him. They pretty much all say he's the nicest dude you'll ever meet. \n\nBut at the same time, I'm still not sure that's not a good idea you've got there. ", 
        "For sure, I have only heard people say good things about Nate.  \n\nI have just been twisted up like a pretzel by people with less than half of his experience.  I would love the chance to roll with him, but I would hate it at the same time.", 
        "Because a lot of people on the internet are like [this](http://images.memes.com/meme/916053) and were never in a situation remotely close.", 
        "the thing is, he quit when he dove for that lackluster takedown.", 
        "This guy vs DADA 50000, do it bellator.", 
        "That guy in the pic wouldn't be fighting at 170lbs", 
        "You don't know him, man. He'd make the weight cut.", 
        "Rumble did...sometimes anyways.", 
        "Rumble vs Conner for UFC 200", 
        "Fans are upset that they didn't have pictures of an unconscious McGregor to photoshop.", 
        "You mean like the 5000 Aldo pictures?", 
        "Exactly.", 
        "Even better, we have gifs of him wobbled, becoming a wrestler, getting GnP and getting submitted. ", 
        "And, let's be fair, of a Diaz who looks like he clearly lost the fight.", 
        "But that's common. Breaking or bruising skin doesn't mean you won. Especially against someone with a lot of scar tissue. ", 
        "It's common if you got smashed like crazy in the face, yeah.", 
        "You must be new to the sport. Those who train hard and are in brutal fights develop scar tissue that breaks very easy. Diaz is always cut. Regardless, big shots don't always put people out. Having a technique is key. Like Diaz did. Instead of throwing wildly and gassing out like a heavyweight, he has enough skill to know how to weather a storm and conserve energy. Fighting 101.", 
        "\"fans\"", 
        "I don't like Connor flat out, but anyone who says Connor isn't brave or whatever for tapping is an idiot. ", 
        "I used to like him a lot because he's fun and he's an excellent fighter but after all the shit that he said and did to Nate I felt like he crossed the line from funny trash talker to just a big bully and i like trash talkers but I don't like bullies.\n\nRespect for experimenting with fighting bigger guys and there's no shame in tapping. Some people forget that as unusual  as it is, mma is a sport. Conor just lost that game. No big deal. ", 
        "So true", 
        "I also didn't, but [this](http://www.mmafighting.com/2015/5/21/8641915/conor-mcgregor-on-ireland-gay-marriage-referendum-we-all-deserve) made me change my view a bit.", 
        "Nate Diaz, the voice of reason. \n\nAnyone criticizing McGregor for tapping out is ridiculous and has probably experienced minimal to no BJJ training or never been caught in a properly applied submission. ", 
        "I don't think anyone really thinks he was getting out of that. What bothers me is when people say somebody is stupid for not tapping in competition when there us even a 1% chance they might get out. They act like going to sleep actually hurts something. \n\nAnd I think people are giving Conor shut because he said Cowboy quit. ", 
        "Imo cowboy did kind of quit but I think theres nothing wrong with conor tapping. Not tapping to a regular person is one thing because they actually could make a mistake but that RNC was tighter than a nun, conor was flattened out, and i can imagine nate KNEW he had conor in a check mate position. No use in going to sleep, nate was NEVER gonna lose that choke", 
        "Cowboy quit less than El Tappo", 
        "If you think Cowboy quit you have never gotten hit in the liver. He took a big knee followed by multiple shots. Even when it got stopped he was blocking with one hand and going for a leg with the other. I don't see how that is quitting.", 
        "Did you seriously just make the claim that being choked unconscious is certain to cause no long term effects? You must have heard that once in passing from a guy who studied jiu jitsu in the 70s. There hasn't been the belief that there is no danger to a choke out in years, even decades. Aside from the standard memory loss, seizure, or retina damage, many studies are showing your heart could flatline causing heart damage or even a coma or death. \n\nNo medical professional believes there is no possibility of long term damage from being choked out, especially if it happens multiple times, say over the course of an MMA career.", 
        "There is always a chance, but for most people not much of one unless it is held for minutes. There is also a chance you could die from a punch to the head.\n\nI'm not a doctor but this guy is. http://mmajunkie.com/2011/07/ask-the-fight-doc-is-brain-damage-possible-when-chokes-are-held-too-long", 
        "I agree with you that the likelihood of permanent damage is pretty low, and I will also add that it is miles better than being struck unconscious, I'm just referring to the part of your comment that it simply won't hurt anything. Maybe do an edit, but at this point it probably doesn't matter.", 
        "Until I see proof that 10 seconds to go out and 10 seconds to get stopped does any permanent damage I will stand by my statement. ", 
        "So imagine if a guy has your leg. And you choose to not tap. And so he destroys your knee and suddenly POOF your career is over. Because you chose to not tap. \n\nSame thing with choking. Why go to sleep? Why? You know it's deep so just tap. It's the respect of the sport and your opponent to tap.", 
        "Lol you realize that a choke is different then a leg lock right. Fuck off ", 
        "Yeah no shit. I assume you're a \"tapping is for quitters\" kinda person?", 
        "I agree with you on a joint lock. A choke is just different. It will not destroy your career. If I have a 1% chance to get out I would take that over the 0% chance I would have from tapping.\n\nEdit: And nobody ever says somebody should have tapped out to strikes. Little bit of a double standard. ", 
        "Are you saying breaking a knee and taking a nap are equally bad for your career?", 
        "He's saying both aren't good for your career. ", 
        "Well getting punched is bad for careers, and I don't see anybody tapping from that. /s\n\nNot all things are equal in severity, damn it. Use some critical thinking.", 
        "There's been people that tapped to strikes. Well respected guys actually. Guys like GSP, Forrest & Shogun.  \n\nHaving your knee bent in the opposite direction will create much more damage than being put to sleep. But answer this. Is there anything good that will come out of getting choked so hard you pass out? Use some critical thinking. ", 
        "Fair point, and I hadn't thought about those guys, but nothing you said refutes my claim that...\n\n>Not all things are equal in severity, damn it. Use some critical thinking.", 
        "Edited my post. ", 
        "Pretty sure going to sleep and cutting off oxygen to your brain isn't the best thing to do. ", 
        "Let's not pretend that your knee snapping and losing some blood to the brain for a short period of time are even in the same realm.\n\nFFS, what I had of an amateur MMA career was ended when, all of a sudden, my toes were pointing towards my head in a freak knee dislocation accident. The few times I went to sleep did not cause any problems like that.", 
        "You are aware that when you lose brain cells they don't just \"grow back\" right? ", 
        "Pretty sure it's not the most dangerous thing that happens in the cage. Conors brain likely suffered way more from Nates punches than going to sleep will ever do for you.\n\nBut yeah he had already lost and tap was good in that case, I just find it funny when people act like getting choked out is end of the world for guys who try to give their opponent concussion before they get one themselves", 
        "What? Do you honestly believe removing blood flow to the brain has no effect whatsoever? \n\n\"There is always risk of short-term memory loss, hemorrhage and harm to the retina, concussions from falling when unconscious, stroke, seizures, permanent brain damage, coma, and even death.\"\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choke-out\n\n", 
        "I've heard horror stories about people in my gym getting choked unconscious, then waking up and vomiting in a lengthy torrent.", 
        "I've never puked over a choke. I have puked over a concussion though? Is puking permanent damage? You are drawing at straws now. ", 
        "Never implied that it caused permanent damage. But it's not a great idea to let yourself be forced into unconsciousness.", 
        "Neither is fighting in a cage. ", 
        "True. There's no shame in trying to minimize damage to yourself in this sport, though. As long as you're not failing to entertain. I'll never cheer a boring fighter.", 
        "I would never boo someone that didn't tap to a choke. ", 
        "i've never seen anyone puke from being put to sleep, and i've seen a lot of people go out. i have seen them awake very disoriented, confused and very upset. most people just don't know what happened and have to sit down for a little bit to get their legs back.    \ni put someone out once, let go of the choke, he woke back up and tried to keep rolling like nothing happened. i had a hard time convincing him he had been out.", 
        "Yeah.. I'm sure it's the least harmful way to go out, but I doubt there's anything good about having the blood and oxygen restricted to your brain. ", 
        "I certainly wouldn't encourage anyone to do it but it probably isn't that bad for you. There is an associated blood pressure change that can't be good. ", 
        "> They act like going to sleep actually hurts something.\n\nSo you have medical knowledge on this? You are claiming that depriving the brain of oxygen definitely incurs no long term damage. Care to elaborate on why you reach such a strangely confident conclusion?", 
        "Because of science. Google is your friend. ", 
        "I'm just making fun of him for saying he would never tap again and giving him shit for saying Cerrone quit in his fight with RDA. Conor quit too as soon as he went for that takedown. ", 
        "While I completely agree, I thought people were making fun of Conor for tapping out, because he had said he would never tap out again. Might be wrong, but I know people love to take everything Conor said before that loss and apply it after he lost to somehow show how...pathetic he is or something? I personally don't get it, but I think thats the reason.", 
        "Well, Helio didn't tap to Kimura, Royce didn't tap to Wallid, Renzo didn't tap to Sakuraba. A lot of BJJ legends went out/had limbs broken without giving up. I'm not saying it was wrong for Conor to tap, just that I think he gave up even before he tapped, and it's a shame because he was the one saying he'd never do that.", 
        "Who else read that article in Nate's voice?", 
        "I'd argue the majority of people have never been caught in a properly applied submission.", 
        "And may also be a Bieber fan.", 
        "I'm no expert, but I remember playfighting as a kid, and a friend would sometimes grab my balls, and start squeezing, and yell \"DO YOU GIVE, DO YOU GIVE UP!!!\" And I'd always \"tap\" right away. (I feel that's also a game ending move).", 
        "Is that what you two called it?  \"play fighting\"", 
        "\"gay fighting\" ohhhhhhhhhhhhh", 
        "All sapien, no homo bro!!", 
        "all the homo!!", 
        "seriously i was explaining this to my friend. Anyone who has ever experienced that choke knows it is very clear when it is in and deep. Theres also like zero chance of escape when that choke is locked in and you are flattened out. might as well tap, the end result is the same and its better for you than passing out", 
        "There's a lot of people eating crow after Nate basically contradicts their week long argument about it.  They won't admit it though.  ", 
        "I am with you regarding all this bullshit lately about fighters/reg joes talking shit about tapping or bragging about not tapping.  Your snark about lack of experience is misplaced though...lots of guys including Matt Serra (pretty sure he has some experience) are giving Conor shit for not sleeping, but I think most of it is in response to the big game that Conor talks(and the big success he has seen).", 
        "No this is just wrong, /u/00Spartacus knows more about Nate Diaz than Nate Diaz.", 
        "Still got a boner over me I see. Did you find that Conor underwear you made a thread about?", 
        "Why do you want to see me model it for you?", 
        "yes........i mean...no no nobody want to see the (everybody wants to by everyone i mean me) noooo nobody and i'm totally not spartacus sock account(i toootaally am)", 
        "*Checks history  \n\nYou are correct sir.  ", 
        "Boom Roasted. ", 
        "True, but it did spawn his awesome new nickname...\n\nEL Tappo", 
        "The other side of this is nate diaz is again saying that mcgregor has nothing for him, and that he is by far the superior martial artist. Sure he is being reasonable, but the people begging for \"reason\" aren't the ones ready to admit that conor is inferior to nate diaz. ", 
        "theres a valid argument to say that Conor is the inferior fighter because Nate just beat him, But there are valid counter arguments, Like Conor beating an undefeated in 10 years monster to win the belt, (Nate lost his only title fight) stringing together 15 wins, with 1 decision, you also cant deny that they are not the same size, Nate is a big 155'r, Conor is a big 145'r.", 
        "1% read the actual article.", 
        "Uuuuh he bragged that he would never tap to a choke and claimed he would rather die in the cage. \n\nThen he tapped to a choke.\n\nPeople make fun of people with big mouths. Get over it. ", 
        "People aren't going to stop supporting a great fighter and entertainer because he lost a fight. Deal with it.", 
        "Wow you are mad af", 
        "Those words, you don't know what they mean", 
        "[removed]", 
        "I'm sure Conor's feeling just terrible about your 450 reddit karma as he's counting his millions and, y'know, making more losing than your boy Diaz did in his life.\n\nNo need to get all scared and teary-eyed with your little inbox. It's just bantz little lad;)", 
        "This is exactly correct. Everyone loses, and everyone taps. Zero shame in that", 
        "fucking hell dude he says this to sell tickets, stop being dumb. He tapped in previous losses. ", 
        "This is real life you know. If you want fake bullshit then go watch wwe", 
        "Don't know if sarcasm or...", 
        "Stupid people usually struggle with sarcasm. \n\nI forgive you", 
        "I have aspergers, but i'm far from stupid. You're just an ignorant fool.", 
        "Americans are way over-sensitive to shit talking. ", 
        "Or people just don't like fake personas and generic trash talking rehearsed in front of a mirror. It has nothing to do with being sensitive for a lot of people, it's mostly all about the act.", 
        "that's not really shit talking though. saying that you can beat any man that ever lived is shit talking and very likely to untrue. nobody is going to hold you to that because it is so outlandish.    \nsaying that you would never tap to a choke is something that is 100% within your control. you make that decision. i don't fault him for tapping since he wasn't getting out and he wasn't winning even if he could get out, but *he* chose to tap when he said he never would.      \n", 
        "Well, most of his fans believed it.", 
        "Idk about all that, I've been seeing some Irish reactions that you could really call \"over-sensitive\".", 
        "The vast vast majority of the people criticizing the tap have no idea he in some interview once said he\u00b4d never tap. Don\u00b4t be disingenious.", 
        "Prove it. ", 
        "Lol, someone was bullied by the cocky kid in school", 
        "You won't be making fun of him after he knocks out Lawler in the first round.", 
        "Did you think when he said that, he would literally prefer to die in the cage than submit? Plot twist he is not the first fighter to say he would rather die than quit and not mean it in the literal sense. \n\nBig mouthed? I would say its pretty standard for a fighter to say stuff like that.", 
        "You're deliberately being obtuse here.", 
        "It's not standard. Watch more mma before commenting", 
        "> Plot twist he is not the first fighter to say he would rather die than quit and not mean it in the literal sense.\n\nHow do you think he meant it then? I mean, if you're saying that he didn't mean it in the literal sense, then are you saying he meant it in the figurative sense? How exactly does that work?\n\nHonestly, it sounds like you're taking a roundabout path to saying \"he didn't mean it at all\", and that's exactly what he's being criticized for; he said something he didn't mean.", 
        ">Did you think when he said that, he would literally prefer to die in the cage than submit? Plot twist he is not the first fighter to say he would rather die than quit and not mean it in the literal sense. \n\nOf course not, but he is the biggest fighter in the world and they aren't, he got made fun of for it because it's funny in retrospect.\n\n>Big mouthed? I would say its pretty standard for a fighter to say stuff like that.\n\nYou're seriously gonna pretend that Conor isn't big mouthed??? Yes other fighters say shit like they would rather \"DIE THAN TAP\" but Conor gets the special treatment of being criticized for it because his entire persona has been built up on talking shit.\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">> he is the biggest fighter in the world \n\n>lol, if you say so. \n\nSeriously?\n\n>>You're seriously gonna pretend that Conor isn't big mouthed??? \n\n>I never said anything of the sort. He is the biggest shit talker in the game, but not on this issue. \n\n\n> It is pretty much a job description for a fighter to have confidence in his ability not to get chocked out in this game and frankly so is a bit of hyperbole when you are describing your determination not to be submitted.\n\nDid you even read what I said to this?\n\"Yes *other fighters* say shit like they would rather \"DIE THAN TAP\" but Conor gets the *special treatment* of being criticized for it because his *entire persona* has been *built up on talking shit*.\"\n\n", 
        "hes saying every fighter is big mouthed", 
        "Which isn't true at all. And even if it were, McGregor is on a whole another level with it. There's a reason he takes over and is the only one being asked questions anytime there a press conference.", 
        "dont be ignorant about this, most fighters dont say what they actually mean, believe, feel. they sell tickets, even if they're bad at trying to do it. McGregor is one of the fighters who are good at it. end of story", 
        ">dont be ignorant about this, most fighters dont say what they actually mean, believe, feel. they sell tickets, even if they're bad at trying to do it. McGregor is one of the fighters who are good at it. end of story\n\nNone of this has anything to with anything I said in any of my posts in this thread.", 
        "Soon as you get over people grandstanding to sell a fight or get one like him saying that was.", 
        "This is real life, fighting is real. In real life talking has consequences. Don't be a baby. ", 
        "\"Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the mouth\"\n\n-Kenny florian", 
        "Gets me every time.", 
        "Is that even quoted correctly", 
        "Kenny Florian was suspended by fox for a time for plagiarism ", 
        "Looks legit to me", 
        "I thought it was till they get hit", 
        "To the death, Georges!", 
        "That's a fair point, but there are far more people saying he \"tapped like a bitch\" than bringing up the hypocrisy that you mentioned.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Maybe you should check in all the other threads about it.", 
        "He did tap like a bitch though, he tapped twice. Twice = Bitch", 
        "What's tapping once then? Brazilian?", 
        "Non-bitch", 
        "Found the kid who's never rolled", 
        "nah i think you actually found someone with a legit mental disability. or he's joking..poorly.", 
        "Man, a tight RNC is a horrendous feeling. Like, your brain is screaming \"if this doesn't stop *right now* you are going to *fucking die!*\" And your brain is right. Doesn't matter how tough you are, it's over. I wouldn't ever judge anyone for that. Saying you would never yap is just dumb. Anyone who doesn't tap when  it's locked in deserves their nap. ", 
        "Conor convinced a lot of people that you are a pussy if you tap. Now here we are. No need for the \"leave Brittany alone\" treatment. ", 
        "He wanted to be famous and bring in new fans and media who don't understand anything about mma so he could make more money. I think he's getting some karmic realignment from the universe on this one. \n\nHe's rich now and the price he's paying is a few witty remarks about things he's said and how he fights. Keep things in perspective", 
        "Look, man. Plenty of people tap and nobody says shit. It's specifically because Conor talks about dying in the cage and never tapping and panicked wrestlers, etc etc. Then he taps. Everyone talks about how he always does what he says, but in this case, the thing he makes fun of, he did.", 
        "I'm glad the whole \"selling a fight\" thing went over your head.", 
        "Someone makes a point that I don't like? Infer that they're stupid!", 
        "\"Someone makes a point\", HAH!", 
        "Do people not understand that before a fight 90% of what fighters who know how to sell a fight (i.e. McGregor, Chael Sonnen) say is just bullshit?  I swear - the people who think these guys mean what they are saying probably believe WWE is real fighting too.", 
        "You absolutely don't know that so don't claim it as fact. ", 
        "Feel free take everything McGregor says before a fight as absolute truth.  It should have piqued your interest though when he said he'd die before tapping as he's been submitted by choke before in a fight and managed to lived to spout hyperbole to sell his fight in UFC196.", 
        "Obviously not everything is truth. But plenty is just his asshole side shining through. You have to be blind not to see that.", 
        "he also said that when he hits people they turn into wrestlers and try to take him down. when he got rocked he did the same thing. why not focus on that? You arent wrong, he has a big mouth but that is why he makes so much money. ", 
        "Yep. He gets paid more, he gets made fun of. I think it's a fair trade\n\nEdit: nothing in life is free, especially money", 
        "No problem with that except when it comes to tapping. In my experience a Rnc from a black belt isn't something that feels wonderful. It just seems dumb. ", 
        "Lots of people focused on his takedown, too. There's a lot of material to work with here, and people pick and choose.", 
        "So the thing is, he should not be ostracized for tapping out, because there's no shame in it, he should be ostracized for saying that tapping out is ridiculous or some shit he said I forgot.\n\nEDIT: Guys I know why people are talking about this, what I am saying is why people shouldn't, or at least at what people should be talking about.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Pointing out that he tapped, yes, calling him a bitch for doing it? No.", 
        "What about \"hypocritical bitch\"?", 
        "Depends, if you just want to insult the guy, yeah, why not?", 
        "People give him praise for selling fights and talking hella smack, but then everyone takes everything he says super serious and he gets flak for not strictly adhering to his trash talk. You can't have it both ways homies. You can't enjoy his banter and then turn around and lambast him for it when it doesn't go his way. ", 
        "Actually it's the other way round. You can't go running your mouth all the time talking shit then suddenly when you get schooled complain about getting ragged on.", 
        ">You can't enjoy his banter and then turn around and lambast him for it when it doesn't go his way. \n\nThat's exactly how this works. If you talk shit and dance around like a monkey to sell fights you're subject to more criticism than the guy that just shows up and gets the job done.\n\nI have no problem with trash talk, it builds anticipation for the fight and sells tickets, but the idea that you're allowed to enjoy the trash talk but can't call a fighter out when they fail to live up to it is ridiculous. Do you really think fighters that talk shit should be exempt from criticism? Because in reality it's the opposite, and that's how it should be.", 
        "Leave ostriches alone man.", 
        "It's also to do with the fact that Holm didn't tap. \n\nEDIT: I'm not trying to say anything about why Holm didn't tap, just that because Holm went out, McGregor tapping looks bad. \n\nI can guarantee there are plenty of people that have commented on McGregor tapping that have never been out to a rear naked choke. Trust me when I say that the feeling of being choked is pretty fucking awful, there's no reason not to tap in that situation. He was either going out or he was going to tap. ", 
        "Yes she did. The fight didn't get stopped, so she went out, but she did tap two separate times.", 
        "She flipped her, then the curtains close and you see her arms flail, is there another angle that shows it because I didn't see a tap. ", 
        "She looked like someone with no ground game panicking. How does that make conors situation worse.", 
        "Holm was nearly done with round 5 on a fight she was probably winning on points if she could survive. Conor was mid round 2 of 5 and getting destroyed.", 
        "\"But Connor was winning\" - every butthurt casul", 
        "He won the first round, so I guess TECHNICALLY he was ahead. But he lost the second round badly, ignore the actual choke and tap.", 
        "Yeah - the whole reason he went for a double leg was because Nate was about to put him away with his hands.", 
        "I agree. I think it's weird when people criticize his BJJ agains't Nate, when it was obvious he lost it before he even went for that pathetic double leg.", 
        "A lot of casuals really don't understand the subtlety of what went on during that take down, too. Nate went for the easy guillotine and trapped the inside leg but were acting like Connor took him down. Sometimes I just have to sit there and quietly shake my head. ", 
        "My favorite was the guy who thought submissions were pussy moves. ", 
        "somebody should slap that guy.", 
        "No, somebody should choke that guy. ", 
        "I don't think Holm consciously made a decision to not tap.  \n\nI think she thought she had more time than she did, and then tried to tap to the ref.  She went out before she could reach the ref IMHO.  \n\n", 
        "Yea. The one time I ever went out was from an inverted D'arse choke during a hard sparring day. I never felt in trouble, and I could still breathe. Then I watched my consciousness close on me lol then I woke up with the guy who choked me out taking my mouthpiece out. Truth be told, I felt absolutely amazing when I woke up and went on to do a shitload more rounds ha", 
        "Definitely looked like it got her blood flow. ", 
        "its also highlighted by the fact that Holly Holm went out to the same choke in the previous fight without tapping", 
        "Either way, people are bringing it up because of that.", 
        "People are acting like he pulled a Sage Tapout", 
        "He tapped faster than sage. Just go to sleep and wake up with your pride. It's not like he was in an armband about to get his shit snapped up. ", 
        "I see you've never trained BJJ before because only a fool would think that way.", 
        "You tap in training of course. But in front of millions of people, when you have been talking all sorts of shit  naaaaaaw just go to sleep. You might wake up confused with a sore neck but that's all. ", 
        "Nah, man. Tapping serves two purposes:\n\n1. That you give up.\n2. An acknowledgement that you got caught. \n\nSometimes you tap for one or the other, but sometimes you tap for both, which I believe is what happened.", 
        "Sage didn't tap early either. MMA fans are silly.", 
        "Pot kettle black award goes to...", 
        "But even in Sage's case the arm triangle can work in half guard, I've choked out larger sparring partners than myself from both guard and mount with the arm triangle. And in Sage's case he had some sick illness in his throat which made breathing even harder and especially harder when being choked out.", 
        "Yeah, it's silly.  Conor tapping was nothing like Sage tapping.  And I don't think Sage tapped too early--it looked tight to me--I think he just missed all of the obvious counters before the choke was sunk.  Compared to Conor, who did mostly all the right things to escape, but got punched in the face a few times and was trying to play catch-up to a black belt that was always a move ahead.  Conor tried to post, tried to raise his base, tried to bridge, and was prevented from hand fighting by Diaz towards the end... everything was just too slow, but the decisions were reasonable and reflected enough knowledge to compete with most UFC fighters.  Meanwhile, Sage looked like he had no idea what to do off his back and he's going to keep paying for that--especially when he starts going up against guys he can't muscle around.", 
        "Yeah, sage didn't have the skills off of his back to escape that position and was right to tap.", 
        "I think this is dead on.  If you know you are beat, then go ahead and tap. There really should be no shame in losing and tapping to the superior grappler. I've only felt the sting of pride in the moment but ultimately it just makes you want to work to be better. ", 
        "Especially as he had strep throat. That must have been absolute torture.", 
        "I forget which breakdown of the fight it was(there were loads last week), but going through it almost frame by frame they showed what Conor was attempting to do and how Nate overcame it.\n\nIt was a mistake to go for the takedown, although Conor was out on his feet at the time. But when on the ground he did the correct moves to try to get out of it, it's just that Nate is such a high level black belt that he anticipated each move and was already thinking a couple of moves ahead. Look at how Conor rolled out of the guillotine against Mendes and the way Nate stopped him getting away from him in the same situation. Nate should be getting alot more praise than Conor is getting criticism.", 
        "I'd love to give it a read if you find that breakdown.  I am not even convinced that the shot was a bad decision, either.  Conor needed an alternative to getting punched in the mouth, and a poor chance at a double did buy him more time... but Nate's victory was all but sealed at that point, unless you're Frankie Edgar with miraculous survivor powers.", 
        "Don't really have time to look back through them now but I think it was either the Gracie breakdown video or Luke Thomas's Monday morning analyst video.", 
        "Rener and Ryron Gracie made a video that said that Barbarena tapped Sage out with a modified Von Flue choke, not an arm triangle.", 
        "Fitting name for someone who basically had the flu when getting choked out", 
        "Exactly.  A RNC that tight is a game ender.  Shit, I've tapped for being in discomfort too long from a neck crank, because being sore as fuck for like 5 days isn't worth it.  I'd have tapped the second Nate put his hands on my neck.  Anyone who says different has never rolled with a black belt in bjj.  The skill gap between black belts and everyone else is just incredible, and I don't think most mma fans know first-hand what it's like.  It's like Kobe Bryant playing against a high school kid.", 
        "Kobe vs. a toddler. I've watched some blacks carry a full blown conversation while a blue belt is coming hard at them. ", 
        "I've been the guy in the other place.  As in getting destroyed while a guy smaller than me casually coaches me, not even out of breath. ", 
        "can't remember who it was, i want to say rickson? that would roll with great high level guys and tell them what he was going to submit them with, then count down to him going for it, and still get the arm or choke he wanted. ", 
        "Yeah it was him.  I saw the video of him just subbing guys left and right, one after another, and it was just crazy.  And I believe he was calling his shots at one point.  Against black belts.", 
        "It's a real humbling experience. Especially when the guy is way smaller than you and you can't just overpower them.", 
        "I'm just about 6'1\", 215lbs, and I lift heavy and often. I've been absolutely humbled by a black belt that was 5\"6\" and probably 140-145.  There are apparently lots of things you can do to negate strength, as I've found out many times.", 
        "I'm about your build and regularly get humbled by a few blackbelts where I have 20-50 pound advantage. BJJ definitely isn't a sport for big egos lol.", 
        "NOT ME BRO I GO HARD BRO", 
        "BRO YOU DON'T KNOW MY MENTALITY. WHEN I FIGHT I JUST TURN INTO AN ANIMAL AND PEOPLE GO DOWN, THAT JEW JITSEW DOESN'T WORK ON ME BRO! [GO AHEAD, TRY AND MOVE ME BRO!](http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view2/4327855/try-and-move-me-bro-o.gif)", 
        "BRO BRO TRY ME I CAN'T GO OUT WHEN I GET IN THE ZONE BRRROOOOOOO", 
        "LET ME BANG BRO.", 
        "I WILL LET BANG BRO!", 
        "Exactly. There is no shame in tapping when you are badly hurt and in a tight RNC. ", 
        "Theres no shame in tapping if your fresh as fuck, especially if its a BJJ Black belt on Nate's level, if its locked in you're either tapping or being choked unconscious, i know what i would prefer.", 
        "Some people either watch too many bullshit movies or buy into some bullshit fighting philosophy about how \"a true warrior prefers death over defeat\" or some shit like that when in reality this is just an absurd notion centered on insecurity about oneself. People don't like losing because it demeans them in the eyes of others. So in reality people who can't handle a loss are those who are always socially insecure and feel they always have to prove to others to be taken seriously by them. \n\nBut when you climb out of this shallow line of thought and say fuck what anybody thinks that's when you can handle anything. \n\n", 
        "I can't blame Nate for being angry. Dude gets the biggest fight of his life, puts on the best performance of his life proving wrong a sea of doubters who never thought he had a chance, and his win gets more attributed to a bad Conor performance rather than an amazing Nate performance. Fight fans can be assholes. ", 
        "The thing is for me is imagine if Nate had a full camp. Conor wouldn't have landed shit. ", 
        "I don't think that's true. Conor still would have tagged him. But maybe Nate would have even better cardio. Scary thought for Conor.", 
        "Yes of course probably I was exaggerating. But Nate with a full camp against that dude? McChoker would have been demolished. ", 
        "That's all the mainstream shite which was to be expected.  I don't see any real fight fans saying that shit.  ", 
        "I see a few exceptions but for the most part that's right. Still though, fight fans are pretty weird. ", 
        "My biggest issue with fight fans is how quick they are to change their minds after a fight.  Like oh of course Holly was gonna knock out Ronda.  Of course Nick was gonna take out Conor.  Lot of Monday morning quarterbacking going on.", 
        "> Like oh of course Holly was gonna knock out Ronda. Of course Nick was gonna take out Conor. Lot of Monday morning quarterbacking going on.\n\nYeah, but that's simply a result of outcome bias and common in all sports. People seem to have a hard time grasping that things could easily have unfolded differently and that there's a big dose of randomness involved in any sporting event.\n\nThat's one of the main reasons most people suck at betting, because they see things in yes/no terms rather than probabilistically.", 
        "True that. The worst is when they turn on a losing champion. It's disgusting. \"Oh he was never really that good\" -- Drives me insane", 
        "Try looking at the bright side- all of these excuses and focus on \"Conor losing\" rather than \"Nate winning\" means Nate might be able to score a rematch in the future. That would be another huge pay check for him.", 
        "After McGregor's loss I don't think anyone is looking at the same figures for fighting him that they were beforehand.", 
        "Why not I bet he'd still make big numbers ", 
        "I'd say so, just not the numbers he WAS bringing in when he had the hype train behind him.", 
        "> puts on the best performance of his life proving wrong a sea of doubters who never thought he had a chance\n\nHe fought a dude from 2 weightclasses below him and ended the fight looking like he had the shit knocked out of him in a back alley. Let's keep our heads here.", 
        "Nate fights at 155. That's one. Doesn't matter though, Conor is a formidable opponent and would kick the shit out of most guys. To weather that storm, and win the way Nate did, you're not giving either fighter their due for that fight. That's unfortunate.  ", 
        "There's people in this thread saying he only lost cause he gassed, and what if he secured the takedown and controlled the round, maybe he woulda came back and won, lol. Like wtf, have you never watched MMA? ", 
        "I love that one.\n\nAnd why the fuck would he gas? A HUGE part of fighting is being able to last in the fucking fight. If he couldn't even last the duration of half the fight, he has no business fighting. \n\nSuch a terrible argument.", 
        "Well, he gassed because he went too hard for the knock out, and it may have also had something to do with the weight change. Getting punched in the face aside, Conor had a game plan that probably didn't involve going the whole fight. I think you are responding to the ridiculous with the ridiculous.", 
        "he was gassed and rocked if he didn't go for the takedown i would have been finished ", 
        "While that is the sentiment around here, let's not forget Conor didn't just gas out magically or because of \"his weight gains.\" He gassed out because Nate punched him in the face a lot and dodged a majority of his strikes. This isn't directed to you OP, but there isn't nearly enough credit going to Nate for his performance.", 
        "Nate did an amazing job. Conor was obviously not prepared. Both can be said, I think. Conor just has the bigger spotlight (he does, after all, actually have a belt) so he is talked about more. Not exactly fair, just how it is. But the \"what ifs\" are stupid both ways. Had he not gassed, had he avoided the blows, had he landed the shots he went for or held back to conserve energy, maybe something different would happen, and maybe it wouldn't. What matters is what ACTUALLY happened, the rest is just speculation, and who the fuck knows how many possible ends putting two freaks of nature in a cage and making them fight will produce?", 
        "> puts on the best performance of his life\n\nnot even close, really", 
        "Oh it's close. He takes his time in round 1, paces himself, tries to throw Conor against the cage a little bit, makes him miss a little bit, makes it an exhausting fight all the while establishing his distance and not expending too much energy. His face is getting tagged for sure but Conor is a sniper and he will figure out a way to tag virtually anyone just a little bit. But he still weathers the storm, gets comfortable, solidifies the distance game, then starts getting comfy, starts throwing better, more precise combos, then starts pouring it on, all concluding with beautiful BJJ and the submission of his life. That whole thing was Nate's strategy, Conor probably knew about it but thought he was going to KO him anyway, and it worked and Nate executed it beautifully. That's def one of Nate's best fights against one his most dangerous opponents. ", 
        "Conor also started doing the Anderson Silva approach where you stick your jaw out and let them hit you or Dodge so you can counter. Problem is his punches weren't working and Diaz had a lot more power and just kept tagging him. Conor's corner was telling him to keep distance and use leg kicks but he wanted to knock Diaz out. He fought Diaz's fight and lost.", 
        "I'd give that title to the Cerrone fight", 
        "He put on a great performance considering the lack of camp and coming off the beach and all. But yeah, you're right, his fight against Micheal Johnson was a way better performance.  Johnson didn't even look like he had any business being in there with Nate. ", 
        "Nate soundly lost the first round, it's honestly like people are watching different fights with the stuff they say after a fighter they like wins/loses", 
        "Ya and it was going in Conor's favor in the second right up until the end. ", 
        "Exactly, Conor won the fight until he lost it.  Think he should have caught his breath/balance after Nate tagged him instead of going for a takedown, but who knows what his mind was like.", 
        "Yeah, people pretty much just watch fights, wipe that memory, and then replace what they saw with what they wanted to have happened.", 
        "One round doesn't mean much in a five round match.\n\n If another fighter gassed himself out to win the first round against a guy who didn't train for the fight, you probably wouldn't react the same way", 
        "The Johnson fight was three rounds, and he didn't gas.", 
        "Cept for the first round.", 
        "He was warming up..", 
        "There's 3 rounds in a fight not 2 and 1 warm up ", 
        "There is if you had no camp.", 
        "There was 5 rounds in that fight, not 3.\n\nAnd Nate said himself he planned on starting slow in the first round due to no camp.", 
        "I was talking about the Johnson fight ", 
        "Nate's warmup is Conor's fight. ", 
        "And Conor only scored like 5 more significant strikes anyway. He had the impression of volume but he missed a lot.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "> Only had to look at the state of Nate's face to see that\n\nExcept not, cause the Diazes have had issues with scar tissue  buildup causing cuts. Nick even had surgery for it. \n\nIt's not a very good measure of their fighting ability's degradation, as Goldie mentioned. ", 
        "Damage? Lol, clearly uneducated on the matter. \n\nThey don't judge 'damage' specifically not cosmetic damage, you can't tell me there was more \"damage\" because a scar tissue cut that opens up easily was spouting blood.\n\nNate rolled with the punches, if anything he took less damage than McGregor. \n\n\"Winning the first half of the 2nd round\" \n\nAgain, no he wasn't. And winning half the round, like what is being proved there what's the point of that comment. Round's aren't measured in quarters or halves.", 
        "Not the blood. Look at Nate's face at the post fight presser. The left side of his face is very swollen. He definitely got hit with some hard shots.", 
        "And Silva was totally just charging his power level for four and a half rounds against Chael.", 
        "He intentionally let Chael take him down, bro. All to set up the master triangle choke. ", 
        "Mike Goldberg is a dumbass (yes, he actually speculated that on a live PPV broadcast, I think it was for Anderson's fight against Okami).", 
        "Yeah one of my favorite Joe Rogan comebacks. \n\nGoldy: \"Part of me still thinks Anderson intentionally let Chael take him down to set up that triangle choke\"\n\nJoe: \"That part of you should see a doctor\"", 
        "I really don't like Joe Rogan but I appreciate the fact that he tries to call out Goldberg on his bullshit as much as he can. ", 
        "Agree with Nate. About the article - I think it can be a bit misleading (espc for non/new ufc fans) to highlight how Diaz has been winning a lot on submission (not complaining about his bjj), espc in this fight: \n*\" To make matters worse, \u201cThe Notorious\u201d was clearly affected by some big shots from Diaz on the feet moments before the finish.\"*,  following right after \"Diaz\u2019s finish of McGregor marked his record-setting ninth submission victory in modern UFC competition\".\n\nI mean not a big deal really but I feel the angle they are taking makes it sound like he's a submission specialist and that's how he won, when it was really Nate winning by dazzling McG who made a desperate move for a takedown to win time and got choked out. Again not complaining about Nate's ground game just saying that the narrative is a bit misleading. \"Against me, suddenly they all become wrestlers\"", 
        "you don't know BRO NATE OUT BOXED HIM THE OLD ROPER DOPE ", 
        "Nate's record is very deceptive because while his jujitsu is absolutely no joke, he usually gets subs after dominating on the feet. The McGregor fight was no different. ", 
        "Boy, you and I have vastly different reactions to the same statement.\n\nThat's life tho.", 
        "There's some kind of weird culture that's sprung up in sports that dictate it's preferable for an athlete to risk a career shortening (or even career ending) injury to \"tough it out\" instead of throwing in the towel at the right time because \"that's what a **man** does!\" It's a mentality that you don't just see in the UFC, but in virtually every sport.\n\n\n\"He came back on the field to play injured? Wow! What a stud!\" When in reality our hypothetical player is an *idiot* and every minute he's on the field he's shortening his career by years.\n\n\n\nFuck that. Seriously. Anyone who shits on fighters for tapping is a moron.", 
        "Well, some people think, me included, that there is no point in tapping to a choke because there is no serious risk for long term problems from going out. So, there's that, a difference. I think you should **fight** until you go out when defending a rear naked choke. So, keep hand fighting until the lights go out. \n\nThat doesn't make it bad to tap, that choke was deep and Conor was fucking out of it. But I don't like people holding up their hand getting ready to tap, that means they have already quit and are just waiting for the right time to actually tap. \n\nAnd I've been there, once, and I did tap. So if you're being choked it's not a nice feeling and you want out. ", 
        ">Well, some people think, me included, that there is no point in tapping to a choke because there is no serious risk for long term problems from going out.\n\n\n*No* serious risk of long term harm? Are you sure about that?\n\n\nWhile it's true that long term harm is *unlikely* for a choke that is sustained for only a few seconds, to say that there is no risk from it is not true. *Any* time the brain is starved of oxygen, it presents a plethora of risks, both long term and short term.\n\n\nKeep in mind that, no matter how unlikely it is that you'll suffer severe brain damage from being choked unconscious, it only needs to happen *once*.\n", 
        "+1", 
        "Well said! ", 
        "I think there is one exception, and that is when they win an important game. Fighting through an injury for a championship level win or chance can probably be worth it for the player and earning of praise from the fans.\n", 
        ">I think there is one exception, and that is when they win an important game.\n\n\nImportant games and championship opportunities aren't once in a lifetime. They can come again.\n\n\nWrecking your knee and making sure you never play again means they *never* will.", 
        "Jim Brown is particularly terrible for this shit everytime they trot him out to talk about how great it is to run into a 300 pound man at full-sprint.", 
        "We don't need to make things like this up to make Mcgregor look silly. The fact is a day or two before the fight he encouraged all fighters to ignore weight classes and that martial arts overcomes weight. That's the biggest joke, that a guy that cuts 30 pounds thinks he's winning because he's the better martial artist.", 
        "> \u201cYou ain\u2019t getting out of it. You can tap out, or you can go to sleep. It\u2019s (expletive) the same (expletive).\"\n\n(expletive)", 
        "Who da he'll is bashing Mcreggor for tapping, that bullshit ", 
        "Not only is it completely normal and the correct thing to tap out, also Conor was already out on his feet and was in desperation mode thats why he took Nate down and got into the position in the first place. Bunch of idiots calling Conor out on that. The one person feeling worst about tapping out is Conor himself. It really got to him at the press conv when people were saying Holly went out like a champ and he was sitting next to her. Holly never decided to go to sleep she thought she could get out and tried and than just went out. Conor was desperate and saw his last chance on the ground and when Nate got his back it was basically already over the choke was just Nate letting him off more or less easy he could have pounded his face for a couple more minutes until the ref would have stopped it. Him tapping wis also a sign of respect to nate and in no shape or form an \"easy way out\" or a \"pussy move\".", 
        "McGregor fan here but I'm always surprised by how much respect Diaz has shown before and after the fight. I'm not really one to trash talk, but If someone trashed me and my financial situation like Conor did to Nate, I'd be talking shit for days, months even. Id be trying to embarass Conor in every way possible. Not to mention my opponent also punching my hand at the press conference. Conor deserved to lose that fight and Hats off to Diaz for playing it cool instead of taking advantage of the situation. ", 
        "Diaz is a GREAT shit talker. Usually, when someone is that good and that used to talking shit and getting shit, they take it well. I doubt the fighters mean what the y say to each other and after the adrenaline they probably know that. I like to think Conor wouldn't have been a shit bag after if he had won. Shit talking before a match is fine, I personally can enjoy it. But shit talking too much after a victory (especially being personal) is just kicking a guy when he is down. Say you're better, and then move on to the next fight.\n", 
        "I think that was Diaz playing the mental game. Conor punched his hand as a last ditch effort to rattle him. As good as McGregor is, all the mocking and tomfoolery isn't just selling the fight. He's beating down his opponents spirit before they even enter the cage. Think of Aldo's face just before the bell. Aldo lost that fight before it began. Nate on the other hand would not be intimidated and that's scary for Conor. How confident is this guy that Conor can bully and embarrass and physically assault him in front of the world and he just doesn't care. That night really was the battle of who gives the least fucks. ", 
        "I think you're describing a mental situation that didn't exist in this fight. Conor was leading comfortably in this fight until he got unlucky halfway through the second, and he was doing it doing exactly what he always did - hard lefts to the face. Nate looked like he'd been run over by a truck by the end of that fight, I think saying Conor didn't get in his head is just blatantly wrong, he just handled it better than Aldo.", 
        "On the spot. ", 
        "Conor quit before the choke. And I think that is part of what Nate is referencing about him being done.  And if you are going to talk the talk you had better be able to walk the walk. The fact is, as Joe said, we had never seen Conor face adversity.  And he faced a little bit here and he broke. Plain and simple.  Edgar is going to maul him. ", 
        "Yes, because Nate and Frankie are the exact same fighter.  ", 
        "They don't need to be the exact same fighter.  If you don't see holes or weaknesses in Conor's game then you are in for some more heartache.  ", 
        "We all see holes and weaknesses.  I'm just pointing out that Frankie is NOT Nate.  That's it, friend.", 
        "Remember when Conor was this humble about his victory over Aldo", 
        "Remember everything he said before the victory over Aldo? Remember every thing he said leading up to the RDA and Diaz fights about Aldo? Being momentarily humble in victory isn't the same as being humble in victory.", 
        "You've never had to sell a car then.", 
        "I was being sarcastic for the reasons you stated.\n\nWhen he was briefly nice to Aldo, everyone fellated him. When he he vaguely gave props to Nate while fellating himself for being a true champion even while losing, everyone fellated him.\n\nNate is going out of his way to soften the blow for McGregor for no other reason than he hates bullshit in the media. If McGregor won he'd be saying how they all crumble, it's a whole nudda ball game etc.", 
        "Because he was being legitimately humble.\n\nPre-fight he was selling a product. Post-fight the job is done.\n\nYou mightn't like the reality, but you told him he was right and you paid him 60 dollars to prove it.", 
        "> [and you paid him 60 dollars to prove it.] (http://www.reactiongifs.com/r/rfz0hP0.gif)", 
        "He quit when he shot, not when he tapped", 
        "He was rocked man. He wasn't thinking straight. That wasn't really quitting. Probably just seemed like a good idea at the time haha dude was getting smacked. Just instinct for him to stop getting punched by shooting ", 
        "Lot's of rocked fighters survive through much worse and keep fighting. Conor has never used wrestling to recover, let alone shoot a successful double leg, so what instinct is kicking in other than, \"I don't wanna be here doing this against him anymore\"? What other outcome could the shot have possibly resulted in lol.", 
        "He's never been rocked before and was probably too gassed to move around. He probably thought if he took him down he could get a second to recover.", 
        "More like he knew he had absolutely nothing for him on the feet and panicked (like he admitted)", 
        "What? Did you watch the first round? \"Nothing on the feet?\"", 
        "Did you watch the second? Once he realized he was getting out paced on the feet he shot like he was scared. Poor little guy only has the heart to throw shots, no heart to take any.", 
        "Yeah because he gassed. ", 
        "Yeah cause he was getting his ass whooped and panicked", 
        "He was not getting his ass whooped before he gassed.", 
        "If panicking and tapping isn't really quitting than what is? There's no shame in it. Honestly it's smarter than him getting brutally knocked out which he was on track for.", 
        "He shot on a BJJ black belt master. He shot so he wouldn't get knocked out. Would you rather get submitted or KTFO in front of everyone? he quit and chose the lesser punishment. ", 
        "Yea I agree man. People forget about muscle memory. If you do a lot of BJJ it just becomes normal to tap to a choke you know is sinched in. You can feel it. All these people who have never even had a fight talking like Conor made a decision to tap. Even if you train BJJ being in a fight is completely different then rolling or even competition JiuJitsu. He more then likely didn't and just tapped like you would anytime your being strangled. ", 
        "Yeah, isn't that a legitimate and pretty common strategy? If you're in the stand-up game and you're hurt, it's really easy for you to get more hurt very quickly. Your opponent is going to start stepping it up, and you're less capable to fight back, so a lot of people shoot or clinch to try and regain balance.\n\nIf that's true (I'm not an expert here), then I would say that shooting wasn't Conor quitting, but the exact opposite: He was trying his best to improve his situation.", 
        "Exactly. Imagine if he completed the takedown? He would have been in Diaz's guard and could have tried to ride out the rest of the round, get some gas back, and clear his head. Would have a completely different fight. Not saying Conor would have won, but it definitely would been a different fight.", 
        "Hahahahahahahahaha", 
        "Good work -- you're almost as condescending as your namesake!", 
        "A Slavoj Zizek reference in /r/mma ?", 
        "Pretend this is a thumbs up, because the ascii copy paste job I tried didn't work.", 
        "you guys want gold stars? lol", 
        "I mean, you're the one who made the reference.", 
        "I'm imagining it. And like you said in a later comment, small percent of him getting on top anyway.", 
        "Going into a worse position doesn't sound smart. \n\nHe shot so he wouldn't get knocked out on his feet. Being submitted is better than getting knocked out. ", 
        "I dont think he was actively thinking \"i'll get submitted instead\", just that standing and trading isn't working, i need to try something else ", 
        "True but going against someone who is without a doubt better on the ground isn't the best option. But I get it, he panicked", 
        "Well I never said he would have completed the take down haha. He was all fucked up", 
        "I'm sure that's what Conor would have liked though lol. He was definitely fucked up, and I'm sure he went through the quick mental process of \"If I stand here, I'm getting KO'd ... but if I shoot I have a small percentage chance of getting on top\"", 
        ">been in Diaz's guard\n\n>get some gas back\n\nThat's not how it works. Do you know how exhausting it is to be in someone's guard?", 
        ">he wouldve been in Diaz's guard\n\nOut of the frying pan and into the fire? Lol", 
        "Although I get your point I think Connor would also be in big trouble in Nate's guard, especially with a foggy head.", 
        "I am a big Conor fan, and I believe he quit right after Nate rocked him with that left. I don't think he should be ashamed of it, because he knew he was gassed, he knew Nate would KO him on the feet. He took it to the floor and practically gave him his back to avoid getting eating any more punches.", 
        "He gave him his back so he would stop getting punched in the face though... It wasn't a here choke me it was a oh fuck I'm trapped in the mount getting punched in my fucking face I better try and turn out of this... I dunno man I have a hard time with saying he quit. He was lettin lose some mean combos even after he was rocked by that first 1-2 ", 
        "I can see that. I honestly think that he was done and wanted to avoid any concussion. He has spoken about thinking Aldo should be out for at least 1 year after a concussion. And McGregor is one ambitious rascal that wants to accomplish shit as young as possible. He realized he was out-classed and figured out a way to live to fight another day.\nThat's just my theory though\n", 
        "Well even if that's the case I can't really fault him for it. I don't doubt he was already concussed and a 30 punch ultimate Nate Diaz combo wasn't going to help either haha", 
        "Nah didnt you hear? Hes a wrestler now.", 
        "We should have a word for when people keep getting punched in the face and shoot for a takedown in desperation.\n\nMaybe \"panic wrestler\"?\n", 
        "Haha well that's two words but still pretty funny", 
        "Anyone bitching about McGregor has never been in a solid RNC. There was fuckall he could do and the idea that \"Going out on your shield\" means getting choked unconscious is just stupid.", 
        "This RNC wasn't in tight though, he broke from the punches. If he didn't tap he would have been tko'd, which would be worse for marketing his next fight.", 
        "I've been away for like a week.. still talking about the same old shit here. ", 
        "Magreggor fan?", 
        "Macgrugil fan? ", 
        "Macaroni necklace", 
        "Panic would set in and we'd all be tapping, doesn't seem less manly to me", 
        "Also a rear naked choke from Nate Diaz is probably stronger than one from Miesha Tate.  Not taking anything away from Tate's KO cause a rear naked choke from her would put anyone to sleep but Nate is simply stronger than her.  Conor's neck is probably stronger than Holly's but in terms of relativity to Nate to Miesha's arm strength I think it's a big gap.  ", 
        "it's not about arm strength, it's about technique and leverage.", 
        "Obviously, but strength matters too.  If a little kid kicked you right in the balls in the perfect spot it would hurt like fuck too.  Imagine a grown ass man doing the same thing.  ", 
        "what does that have to do with blood chokes? once you stop the blood supply, your body shuts down at the same rate. you don't need to be paul harris to put someone to sleep extremely quickly.", 
        "I don't get why you're getting all nitpicky.  I get what you're saying.  It's why I said Tate's RNC would put anyone to sleep.  But to say strength doesn't matter is simply false.  Sure you don't need to be Paul Harris to choke someone out but it might help if the other guy is strong enough to resist you.  Why else is there a reason why people add additional force to the choke by either pushing the head forward or digging their chin into their hands to lock it harder?  Even if you get into a perfect rear mount on someone it doesn't mean anyone is going to be able to choke anyone out if they can't also fight off their resisting hands or their attempts to wriggle free.\n\nAnd if I recall correctly Miesha had multiple rear mount opportunities where she tried to choke out Holm including the 2nd round.  You honestly don't think if in a split second we had swapped Miesha with Nate in that position he wouldn't have had an easier time probably choking her out in that 2nd round?   At this point we can basically argue over minor details over which fighter had better positioning or who had more left in the tank to try and wriggle themselves free.  Not sure it's going to go anywhere.  Strength still matters in my opinion.  ", 
        "Strength obviously has something to do with it.  Funny what people will argue about.", 
        "not really because, when applied correctly, it doesn't take ARM STRENGTH to restrict someones blood flow \"faster\". it takes technique. you don't need to hit the gym and bulk up your arms to get a \"faster\" rnc submission - you need to get better fucking technique.\n\nread the thread and the comment replied to. ", 
        "> Why else is there a reason why people add additional force to the choke by either pushing the head forward or digging their chin into their hands to lock it harder?\n\nbecause technique and leverage.\n\n> Even if you get into a perfect rear mount on someone it doesn't mean anyone is going to be able to choke anyone out if they can't also fight off their resisting hands or their attempts to wriggle free.\n\nwe aren't talking about submission defense. you made statements about how nate's choke would be faster because \n\n* nate's arms are stronger than meisha's\n* conors neck is stronger than holly's\n\nthose statements are retarded. then you went on to make more retarded statements about getting kicked in the balls by a child, and how i am \"nitpicking\" for pointing out how irrelevant that is when the issue at hand is technique and leverage vs arm strength.\n\nplease don't reply.", 
        "That's actually not entirely true.\n\nThe applied pressure 100% has an effect. Putting 5psi of pressure will have less of an affect than 10psi.\n\nThe softer your squeeze, the more likely you are not entirely closing off the artery. The stronger you squeeze, the more pressure exerted, the more likely you are to be successful in blocking the artery.blocking the blood flow from an artery take A LOT of precise pressure on the artery, it isn't as simple as just say, finding the artery and applying pressure. To close an artery, you have to SMASH it against the nearest bone. IE: you can block off your femoral by putting pressure on the right spot in your quad, but you have to put and enormous amount of force into pressing it against your femur.\n\nSame with the brachial artery that runs along the arm. You only restrict blood flow by SMASHING the artery against your humerus near your arm pit.\n\nTo reiterate: it takes a lot of force to close an artery; so yes, having a stronger squeeze will affect how well you can perform an RNC. \n\nYou can squeeze softly and restrict blood flow, or you can squeeze harder and restrict blood flow even more.", 
        "rolleyes. we are talking about professional fighters not butterflies softly tickling your carotid arteries. \n\n100% of even normal off-the-street adults could choke just about anyone out if they applied the technique properly. you don't have to SMASH BONE INTO ARTERY, you just need to get it right - under the chin, behind the head, squeeze, shoulders back, chest out. ", 
        "Okay guy, I guess I'll just throw away $20000 worth of EMT classes and text books to believes some rando on Reddit :)", 
        "it sounds like you should throw it away. thanks for the resume though... it really bolstered your point.", 
        "its about technique and leverage to get the choke to work, but it works faster if youre strong too ", 
        "You're not trying to strangle the guy, you're trying to block the bloodflow so they go unconscious. Strength isn't key.", 
        "once the blood supply stops, it's pretty much the same rate from awake to asleep.", 
        "the trick is keeping the blood supply stopped for that amount of time.  which takes strength when the person you're choking out is pulling as hard as they can to allow ANY bit of blood to continue flowing and keep them conscious.\n\nI don't know how many times you've been in a RNC but I've been in a perfectly executed choke from both grown men and teenage girls, and there is a huge difference in the amount of time it would take for me to pass out in each of them. \n\njust sayin, its definitely about technique but the guy has a point", 
        "You ever been choked by a black belt compared to a blue/purple? They have a much, much different kind of squeeze. The kind of squeeze that makes you think, TAP NOW OR YOU WILL DIE.", 
        "Yeah... Technique.", 
        "Yea but how will life long losers feel better about themselves if they don't shit on a professional fighter?", 
        "can we fucking move past this fight please", 
        "the only reason we are talking about this is because Holly didn't tap. If she did there wouldn't be a story here.", 
        "I dunno who downvotes this cause people are drawing that comparison like half a dozen comments below you lol", 
        "The way Holm punched the air while she went out makes me suspect that she tried to tap but the lack of oxygen was affecting her motor functions. Just my conspiracy theory.", 
        "If he didn't smack talk BJJ before the fight it wouldn't have been a thing. Him saying he wouldn't tap again just made it worse.", 
        "BJJ had nothing to do with the loss. Nate won the fight because of his stand up game. ", 
        "Its ok. You can swear on the internet", 
        "Not on Fox though.", 
        "This is Reddit bud", 
        "It's like r/NateDiaz at the moment", 
        " For how much shit he talks McGregor should have gone to sleep.", 
        "Tap or pass out, the choke was too deep to get out of. He already knew he was beat at that point, better to lose with some dignity.", 
        "At this rate next week we're going to see these guys training together; Conor still calling Nate a skinny-fat Mexican, Nate still calling Conor a midget.", 
        "Love how the frontpage is still pretty much filled with 196", 
        "I feel like any sub finish will always have some type of controversy afterwards.", 
        "The closest people talking shit on here about this have gotten to being choked out is watching it on tv.  ", 
        "Class act, lot of respect there. Good to see.", 
        "It's really a no-win situation.  Imagine all the shit Connor would be getting if he had gone to sleep.  Either way he was going to catch flak.", 
        "This collection is awesome.", 
        "I don't blame him for it because it's funny in retrospect.", 
        "He wasn't wrong, Connor had nowhere to go at that point. he was swinging for the fences in rd 1 and failed to get a KO and tired himself out, then started getting rocked with the jab. He either would go down to the mat and safely get tapped or get hit in the face 600 more times and risk serious injury before a TKO.", 
        "I swear man even after beating one of my favorite fighters, Nate has made me a fan for life. I never really paid much attention to him before this fight, but now i'm very glad I did. He just seems like a chill ass dude. Definitely starting to become one of my favorites. I never really hear people talk about his submissions that much even though he just broke a record. The dude just has fucking outstanding BJJ.", 
        "I think people were criticizing the fast double tapping more than anything else, he tapped really quick and twice. What makes it worse was what Conor was saying regarding Nate's BJJ before the fight, and that he said he wasn't tapping again in his life.\n\nNo one in the right mind will criticize a fighter that taps to a choke/lock, it's so common in this sport and only natural if you don't want to get hurt for no reason.", 
        "UFC has some, if not the best fighters in the world. it's not like WWE where McGregor would get a \"YOU TAPPED OUT\" chant going on him next time he fights. sometimes she goes sometimes she doesn't. Fuckin way she goes imo", 
        "Conor and Nate post fight are like GSP-level humble compared to their fans.", 
        "\"The situations Holm and McGregor found themselves in were vastly,\"  um... what? Vastly different?", 
        "Class act", 
        "Too many idiots don't know that when a RNC is in, it's a checkmate.", 
        "I'm not criticizing Conor for tapping, i'm criticizing him for calling Cerrone a quitter (when he didn't even quit) yet doing the exact same thing. The hate is warranted, you don't run your mouth as much as Conor only to contradict yourself in your very next fight by taking a dominating loss against a 5th ranked LW who didn't even train.\n\nAnd yes, the fight was a dominating loss. Gassing out by the second round only to get wobbled, slapped, full mounted then choked out is as dominating as it gets.", 
        "McGregor was turning purple in less than a second once Nate had that arm sunk in.  It was such an awesome submission.", 
        "I fucking love how well Nate is conducting himself since the win. Really impressed! ", 
        "A lot of fight fans just want to see a blood bath...they don't know the intricacies of the sport. Good for Nate to defend Conor's tap.", 
        "I take nothing away from Conor for tapping.  I do think Holly is dumb for not tapping however.  If you wan't to spin that as \"badass\" so be it, just dumb in my opinion.  Could have caused serious damage, breaking a bone is one thing  but getting choked out is another.", 
        "He was getting shit for tapping? I thought he was getting shit for be a loud mouthed pricj that got his comeuppance", 
        "Not tapping doesn't make you a \"warrior\" it makes you stupid. ", 
        "Conor McGregor is such a fucking pussy for fighting in the UFC, and going up a weightclass. Fuckign tapping to a RNC, WHAT A PUSSY.\n\n/s\n\nthis is how silly McGregor haters sound.", 
        "he might of made of out of 2nd if he didn't go for that takedown would of been intresting to hear from his corner ", 
        "Fucking thank you Nate! This whole hating on Conor because he tapped is fucking ridiculous. ", 
        "Let's take the fact that Conor was completely gassed.\n\nHad a 180LB man sitting on him\n\nGetting full on choked.\n\nIsn't a blood choke a lot easier to cope with than a choke where you're suffocating? ", 
        "You'll pass out MUCH faster from having your bloodflow cutoff at the neck vs airflow.", 
        "How can you blame a guy for preventing from getting his head squeezed off by a student of jiu jitsu?", 
        "The bigger question is why did they give Sage Northcutt such a hard time for tapping. Sage had very little experience and probably panic tapped.\n\nMcGregor gets what he gets because he talks the talk. He can take it folks and can dry his tears with $ if he cries.", 
        "Way to make this about Sage..", 
        "Yes this is absolutely the very first comparison between those two submission taps. \n\nYou're welcome.", 
        "Sage didn't go on at length about never tapping to chokes again after his last RNC loss.", 
        "Yet Sage got shit for tapping fast.", 
        "Conor isn't getting shit for tapping too fast. You're comparing apples to oranges.", 
        "You should probably read the article that's the subject of this post.", 
        "I did, Nate didn't mention anything about the speed at which Conor tapped in the article. The article didn't even devote one full sentence to that statement either. Regardless it's comparing apples to oranges to compare him to Sage and since the article doesn't make that comparison either maybe you should give it another read.", 
        "OK so you don't understand it. That's fine.", 
        "Fighters are fucking boring if they don't talk smack.", 
        "Conor > Diaz", 
        "At losing", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4aj9mt/mcgregor_photo/d1133gv\n\n> Just checked and it was removed by automod because it was mass reported by the users. So it's you guys censoring the sub :)", 
        "Here's a picture of Conor McGregor folding laundry. \n\nNow, a week before I took this picture, I was at a friend's party, and I went into the basement, and who was down there but Conor McGregor himself, and he was raping several children while completely smeared in human blood.  \n\nAnd he said \"Top of the Mornin' to ye, why if ye steal me pot of gold I'll send ye to the end of the rainbow.  Now fook off and kiss me Blarney Stones.\"\n\nI didn't manage to take any photos of that, but I mean here he is folding laundry so you can put two and two together.", 
        "this", 
        "https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4aj9mt/mcgregor_photo/d1133gv\n\nMods didn't remove it. Automod did because too many people reported the post. ", 
        "I'll take off my tin foil hat, apologies mods. Still can't they un-remove it. It's an abuse of the system that people are reporting it because they don't want it talked about.", 
        "> It's an abuse of the system that people are reporting it because they ~~don't want it talked about~~ have me tagged and are sick of my whiny bullshit.\n\n", 
        "I don't think it's abuse to report low quality posts.  Those posts are pretty low quality.", 
        "If the post was about Jon Jones do you honestly think it would be deleted?", 
        " Yeah, I do.  Because the pictures literally add nothing of value and aren't particularly interesting.  Baseless speculation is baseless speculation, whether it's based on a still shot from a TUF out take or just some random thought some guy has. ", 
        "well Jon Jones undoubedly did coke and had a hit and run incident with a pregnant women, so it wouldn't be as much of a stretch, accusing Conor of snorting fat lines, combined with a picture of him with 2 random chicks proves fuck all  ", 
        "TIL: it's easy to censor stuff in r/mma: just report it.\n\nDoesn't help that shitty fanbases like Conor fanboys love shit like this.", 
        "Damn that's crazy that Conorheads are resorting to taking down images that made damage the reputation of their idol...", 
        "Haha that shit builds his reputation in my mind. I know what l'd be doing if l was a multi millionaire in my 20's..", 
        "You mean a picture of him on a couch?  And then an accusation of cocaine use from some completely different situation?\n\nAnd there's apparently weed and coke everywhere but Mr. Detective manages not to get any in the picture?", 
        "Hey ask the Conorheads that reported the picture. To me some guy on 4chan with a story isn't the most reliable. However that \"picture of him on a couch\" clearly shows him getting close with hookers at least. Which honestly if it's okay with his girlfriend no one should be giving a fuck. The drugs accusations though are unfounded maybe if the guy were able to actually takje a picture of the supposed drugs. Honestly I just hope he has his head straight, it will be really really good for MMA if he goes back to his winning ways. ", 
        "They're hookers now?  Because they're on couch?  This is some couch.  Anyone who sits on it is either a hooker or a coke head.\n\nAnd this is a guy who gets drug tested randomly like all the time also.", 
        "Fine then. Scantily clad ladies drinking and being touchy feely with Conor in a get together. What do you think Conor had them there for?To discuss world politics? :)", 
        "Yup they are just there for the party, nothing else, all the guys from TUF with Julian Erosa's good looks and Artem Lobov's mad game have managed to get friend zoned by a ton of chicks within a week of being there and they just kick it on the low.  ", 
        "sitting beside a girl in a house doesnt mean anybodys paying for sex. sounds like you need to get out more.", 
        "Yeah sitting beside two visibly drunk girls with one of them being all over your big ass rolex watch means they were probably having philosophical discussions about the myth of sisyphus and how we all carry our own little rocks :)", 
        "sounds like you have a deep rooted frustration with women", 
        "Nah dont have anything against those women in the pictures whatever they were doing with a topless Conor in his mansion :))", 
        "They were playing touchbutt ", 
        "Because he had no people with him that might have brought some girls over? ", 
        "go back to tmz ya goof", 
        "Fighters get tested for PEDs, not recreational drugs. Just saying. \n\nThe Jon Jones thing was a one time mistake on behalf of the commission. ", 
        "Ehm... how the fuck do you know that's a hooker? Most likely is just one of the people from the TUF party, during the TUF party.", 
        "Well then they are clearly paid to be there, no one knows what for, but you can put 2 and 2 together and get an idea.  Seems like most of you have never been to Vegas before, but there's a very short list of what men plan on doing there and drugs and women are at the top.", 
        "How about fighting for a UFC title?", 
        "I'll put that at the top of my list next time I go, thanks for the idea.", 
        "Are we talking about Conor or your insignificant ass?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It's not during the tuf party. The background of the pic is clearly from his \"MacMansion\" he stayed at during UFC189. ", 
        ">  Just checked and it was removed by automod because it was mass reported by the users. So it's you guys censoring the sub :)\n\nHA", 
        "I don't care about the picture at all but the thought of Conor fans reporting it en masse to remove it is hilarious to me.", 
        "*puts on tin foil hat* Doesn't even have to be fans. Could be UFC staff. ", 
        "Still Conor fans, No?", 
        "Maybe. I mean you don't have to be a fan if someone is paying you to do some shit.", 
        "J/k, you know with the marketing push UFC gave him, so calling all UFC employees fans, get it? ", 
        "The Irish are very sensitive, don't ever mistake them for a Brit or they will freak out.  Being pasty white Paddy Holohan lookalike and a drunk comes with some burdens I suppose.", 
        "A lot of people would take offense to being British. ", 
        "I think people just didn't like the TMZness of it. ", 
        "No conor fans didn't like it. \n\nWas Chuck Liddell's alleged cocaine video removed?", 
        "lol downvoted\n\nIs this a better way to phrase it, so as to not offend anyone?\n\nIf it was just the TMZness of it then why wasn't Chuck Liddells alleged cocaine video removed?", 
        "Who gives a fuck. Can we go back to talking about mma on this sub?", 
        "i don't even like mcgregor's personality and i'd have to agree with you. ", 
        "I don't like plenty of sports star's personalities, doesn't mean I don't want to talk about them in relation to the sport. /r/mma has descended into shit post hell.", 
        "amen", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "what was the picture?", 
        "Your beef with the mods is getting rather tedious.\n\nThe mods didn't remove this one, but they were well within their rights to: The sub's rules say:\n\n> **Unsourced news** - If there's no source you can link to, wait a few minutes and it'll pop up on twitter soon enough. screenshots that can't be easily confirmed will be removed. Self-posts without anything to back them up will also be removed.\n\nRead the rules perhaps.", 
        "It's just a matter of time before it's *Breaking News* on BJPenn.com", 
        "4chan isn't a valid source?", 
        "What pictures?", 
        "I hope this fool isn't taking about a picture of him with a lighter in his hand. \n\nHow big of a pussy do you have to be for this to upset you?\n\n", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Who gives a fuck even if it was true... That makes him more likeable in my opinion. Jon Jones literally crashed his car into a pregnant lady and fled the scene. He's still one of my favorite fighters.", 
        "Seriously? This is it? This is clearly the mansion Mcgregor stays in and not the 4chan guy's \"Buddy's house party\".  ", 
        "Exactly....", 
        "It's not just a rumor, it's full-on defamation", 
        "Too many shit mma sites take their leads from here, so that kind of discussion will lead to shit articles which will get posted here again and the cycle will continue. \n\nIt's a dumb rumor with no evidence that's almost a year old. Mods are stopping the unnecessary mess before it happens. Thank god. ", 
        "Iv already seen a site report it", 
        "Don't be fooled THEY REALLY SAY MEEBOK", 
        "What's going on?", 
        "The Zuffa shills have infiltrated and are doing damage control! ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Downvoted yet literally proven true haha this sub is too funny", 
        "Because its about as reliable as the Patrick Kane rape story in a fanfiction sex forum. ", 
        "Head on to sherdog, talk about it there", 
        "Come on you guys,these are clearly people being helped by Saint Conor,he probably just got them in to give them a good meal", 
        "What a legend, I hope he never comes back.", 
        "Fuck it, have him fight Conor.", 
        "Why? GSP is 34, still at the tail end of his prime. He didn't leave because he wasn't still amazing, he wanted to sort out some personal issues if those are sorted I'd love to see him at 200. I think he's still the best 170lbs'er in the world, I'd love to see him go on another 5 or 6 title defense streak and break Silva's record for wins and title defenses. GSP vs Nick Diaz at 200!", 
        "He started having missing time, which is an early sign of brain damage. If he continued fighting, it would be risky.  I'd rather he have a long and happy life.  ", 
        "Oh stop that, I don't want to have to think about the moral implications of watching a sport I enjoy so much. I want to be entertained. 'sarcasm' I actually didn't know that, do you have a source I'd like to read about it.", 
        "Just google for GSP UFO, or aliens.\n", 
        "he has everything to lose and nothing to gain, \n\nso far he is the only champion and p4p goat (aside from jones who is still really young) who has retired a champion and rode off into the sunset without suffering multiple ko's and losses towards the end of their career.", 
        "But maybe when you're competitive enough to push yourself to be one of the greatest fighters ever, you can't just stay away. And what does he lose if he does lose? Its not like any of his previous accomplishments go away. \n\nDo you think Mayweather is better than Sugar Ray because he's undefeated? Sugar Ray is the greatest boxer ever and has double digit loses, because he took risk, pushed himself to try things no one else would.\n\nAlso I find it strange you care more about any fighter's legacy more than being entertained. GSP is my favorite fighter ever, but I watch the sport because it's entertaining and he's entertaining. Now if he has legit health concerns I want him to stay retired, but if he's healthy bring on Nick Diaz at 200.", 
        "I disagree. I want him to comeback on his terms and his alone; if he decides not to, that's cool too.", 
        "Jealous me wants him back so badly, really wish there was someone around that would really cement him as the GOAT but I think Lawler is pretty on par with his usual competion", 
        "You know you should stop fighting when you don't remember how you got into your car", 
        "Like a female karate instructor told us: \"What a specimen\". ", 
        "The best thing our heroes can do for us is to die before we see them fail. ", 
        "Agreed whole heartledly.", 
        "Absolutely.  He needs to stay retired as a champion.  ", 
        "I don't want to see him come back and try to compete for the title...but there's another fighter who is coming back that I also don't want to see competing for a title becase I think both of these guys respective divisions have gotten better in their absence and I don't want to see them KTFO...If he comes back it should be for a fight against BJ @UFC200", 
        "Why do you hate BJ Penn?", 
        "Because my girlfriend is a playboy model. I mean because...", 
        "there will never be another GSP", 
        "Agree 100%. Went out on top. No better way to do it.\n\nLookin' at you, Michael Jordan sitting out the 4th quarter for the wizards.", 
        "I hope he comes back and gets his teeth knocked in by Diaz.", 
        "Why?", 
        "Sup PAC", 
        "You might be a bit slow.. get that checked.", 
        "I've always been a Diaz fan, but what could you possibly have against GSP?", 
        "As if they'd give Diaz the fight after he got completely dominated by GSP last time.", 
        "With a jab no less.", 
        "Jordan wasn't afraid to challenge himself and play the game he loved, not at the highest level, but at a high level nonetheless. That is what true passion is.", 
        "Losing a basketball game makes you sad.\n\nGetting beat up in the Octagon can cause permanent damage/disability later in life.", 
        "Doing that in MMA results in brain damage via concussions. ", 
        "the one that always puzzled me was larry holmes coming out of retirement to face Prime peak of his powers Tyson. Larry fought A 38 year old Ali in a match where ali came out of retirement of 2 years, and Larry put a disturbing one sided beating on him. it was so bad that larry cried in his locker room immediately after. \n\nLarry goes through that, sees what happens when a great comes out of retirement to face the new young killer, then goes and does the same fucking thing. he also was retired for two years, was 38 years old, so he knew what that time off and age does to a fighter since he saw it firsthand a decade earlier with him and Ali. I can only assume the $$$ was too good and he knew what was coming. he was able to keep tyson at the end of his jab for the first few rounds, tie him up and lean on him, but tyson figured him out and KO'd him cold. \n\nedit - [watch the fight if you've never seen it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FyZFkp_rWHo). one of the better displays of the smaller man effectively pressuring a bigger longer man. Larry was tracking Tyson with his lead left to keep the glove in his face and blind him, and use it to clinch when tyson slipped it. tyson had to do some ninja shit to get inside. really showed off how great prime tyson was at pressuring. even with larry fighting dirty holding him every chance he could tyson still managed to crush him. ", 
        "Money man...", 
        "Damn. That's brutal. I knew about Ali-Holmes, but was somehow unaware of Tyson-Holmes. It's sad, sometimes, to watch history repeat itself. ", 
        "It's different in MMA though. Losing a few games and having a bad performance here and there won't tarnish your legacy in basketball the same way it will in MMA.  If GSP decided to stay around and lose 3 out of his next 5 MMA fights people would view him differently. ", 
        "If he wants to fight he should fight. He's probably not doing it for the money since he was smart about his money when he made it. So he's gonna do it for his passion alone. Whenever I hear people say they hope he doesn't come back it kinda makes me feel weird. I would absolutely love for him to come back, but only if he is doing it because of his passion for it. Who cares if he loses or doesn't fight for the title, he's an absolute joy to watch and you gotta realize that he's only a year older than the current champ.", 
        "Tarnish your legacy? What about brain damage? ", 
        ">Losing a few games and having a bad performance here and there won't tarnish your legacy in basketball \n\nyeah it also won't give you fucking brain damage either if catch a couple of tough shots to the dome.", 
        "Not to mention getting your limbs broken or your head kicked in is different than chucking ill-advised shots.  You can do permanent damage.", 
        "Dumb people would view him differently. Many others would recognize that any future failures do not tarnish his past successes.", 
        "> Dumb people would view him differently.\n\nHate to break it to you, but \"dumb people\" represents the majority of human beings alive right now. ", 
        "Only a couple percent of people fall into the 'dumb' IQ range categorically. That means that for the rest of who weren't born with the natural gift, we have to work hard at being dumb. Stop denigrating my accomplishments!", 
        "Not really.  Going out on top hints at unseen potential.   People can speculate how much longer you would have held your belt and how you would matchup with modern fighters. \n\nBecause of this unseen potential, your reputation appears larger. \n\nBut if you win 20 in a row, then lose your last 3 in a row, then people will still respect your 20 wins...but now they know the limit of your accomplishments.  The know the *entirety* of your capabilities. \n\nCase in point... Chuck Liddell.  He is a legend.  Everyone knows that he was great.  There is no taking that away from him.  Imagine if he would have TKO'd Tito, then walked away with the belt. \n\nAs the Pride guys filtered into the people would say \"surely he would have avenged his loss to Rampage, he would probably beat Wand and Shogun...\"  it would at least be debatable.  People that didn't favor him would at least question it. \n\nBut instead, he lost to Rampage again, lost to Jardine, beat Wand, lost to Rashad, Shogun, and Franklin all by KO...   His accomplishments still stand.  But it certainly tarnished them. \n\n\nWith GSP seeming to struggle at the end of his career, it seems that he took it right to the edge.  He left at the perfect time and he has nothing left to prove.  The only thing he could possibly achieve by coming back, is stacking up some more money. ", 
        "> Case in point... Chuck Liddell. He is a legend. Everyone knows that he was great. There is no taking that away from him. Imagine if he would have TKO'd Tito, then walked away with the belt.\n\nThe other opinion is that everyone dies and no one will care about any of this much in the future. If you are down to do it and/or want another big payday... then go for it, all we have is now so none of this really matters much at all, not really. Chuck seems to be doing pretty good and looks pretty happy in retirement, I'm sure those extra huge bags of money he got helps out with that.\n\nOf course, its more sad seeing guys who never quite made it or were around for the early days and never got paid, fighting for peanuts on a local show but hey, if thats what they want to do then good for them. \n\nAgain, it doesn't really matter, not really. Eventually we will all be rotting in the ground so if in this moment they want to do it or think its the right thing for them then who am I to shit on them for wanting to continue? \n\nI mean, should saku retire because he has been beaten into perpetual mummy wraps for life? Well, a sane man would probably say \"yes\". But again, its his life to live. It doesn't really matter if they are a \"shell of their former self\"... there are plenty of fighters out there who don't even measure up to that shell. Not everyone can be the champ and honestly the fetish with the belt vs everyone else is a can is pretty disrespectful in general. The belt doesn't matter.\n\nAs far as \"legacy\" mattering... think about boxing for example. Outside of a few big names like Rocky Marciano, Muhammad Ali or Tyson.... no one outside of hardcore fantatics know guys from even 50 years ago much less 100. There will always be a current \"GOAT\" that fans consider the best... plenty of those guys are long forgotten. Hell, people in here probably wouldn't even know about guys like Willie Pep, for example, if it wasn't for Jack Slack and even then all they know is he was referenced in a few articles or whatever. People might know the names but probably havent went back and watched all of Roberto Duran or Sugar Ray Leonards fights, for example, and those guys were fighting within some of our lifetimes.\n\nMMA hasn't even been around, officially, for that long but even guys like say Igor Vov are not really know by newer fans at all. This was a guy who was considered by the majority of hardcore fans to be the hardest hitter on the fucking planet and an outright beast. So, just saying... I wouldn't shit on a fighter for not caring about their \"legacy\" and just taking as many fights for money as they can. Fans don't care, your legacy should only matter to you and thats a personal thing, no shame in losing and no shame in getting paid.\n\n It really doesn't matter. Hell, even GSP himself will be forgotten or talked about in passing. You will have writters like 2075 version of Jack Slack referencing GSP in articles but I seriously doubt new fans in 2075 are going to be super stoked to go back and watch GSP winning decisions. Hell fans alive now havent even done that. Plenty of people haven't watched all of Fedors fights, a dude who is considered the GOAT by a lot of fans, fighters in particular, and is still alive to day and fighting...", 
        "I wonder how that's working for Anderson Silva. \n\nHe certainly isn't what he used to be, but I usually separate his accomplishments in Before leg break- After leg break. I don't really see how anything he could do now would tarnish what he has accomplished when he was on his prime. Even if he lost 10 on a row this would just be a knock against the \"new\" Anderson Silva, not the unstoppable monster that set world records.\n\n", 
        "Great points. I think it must be so hard to walk away from the glory of walking out, hearing people go crazy for you, and getting your hand raised, but it would be better if more would do so earlier, if only for their health.", 
        "Forget the reputation, losing in basketball and losing in mma have very different consequences physically.", 
        "Also GSP is still training and involved. Just because he isn't fighting the best doesn't mean he is just sitting on his ass either. ", 
        "It's weird to think that we wish one of our favorite and most dominant champs never gets inside the octagon again. But I hope he doesn't. In any other sport if a guy retires early and has a chance at another run we would be psyched to see an older guy dominate again. \n\nAnyway, just thought that was interesting. ", 
        "Speak for yourself, I'd love to see GSP vs Nick Diaz at 200. He gave me so much joy watching him fight over the years, I'd love to see 5 or 6 more fights. The dream fight for me right now is GSP vs Wonderboy.", 
        "It sucks seeing these older fighters having to keep fighting or wanting to keep fighting but for what?  Like Shogun, he is one of my favorites, but I hate watching him fight now.  He has fought for so long and it has taken its toll on his body, and he won't ever fight for the belt again.  I wish some of these guys would just go out on top like GSP.  Same for Anderson Silva.  He is like 40, he should retire.  I never cared for him much, but it sucks seeing the GOAT of middle weight, fight as a shell of his former self.  He lacks the explosion and precision he once had.  No way he can win the belt back either.  Father time is the true champ.  \n\n\nCompared to the NFL, it would be like a RB still trying to play the position at age 33.  It just aint gonna happen.  ", 
        "I think the majority of Silva's problems are mental and not physical. Even at 40 he looks to be in fine shape and his fighting style was never about physical power or speed anyway. But once he lost the bet he broke his leg it broke him completely.", 
        "I think speed more than anything, as he was a counter striker.  I think it doesn't mean he can't be good, but compared to what he once was in his prime, then he is a bit slower.  ", 
        "Yeah, i guess you are right. To some degree he did use speed. But i think he was more about proper technique, timing and positioning. If he was still at the top of his mental game he would still be champ.", 
        "I do agree that AS does have amazing technique, timing, positioning and for the most part, a high fight IQ.  ", 
        ">He lacks the explosion and precision he once had.\n\nI'd argue he's not lacking either of those traits. Sure, he's not what he was. But it's his speed and chin that have gone rather than explosiveness or precision. He's still a deadly counter striker (precision) that can KO other guys (explosion - basically knocked Bisping out). ", 
        "You admit it isn't what it once was, which is what I think is what made him the GOAT.  Now he is getting tagged a bit more and not quiet as fast.  I do agree that doesn't mean he isn't dangerous, but just not as he was in his prime.  \n\nBut I just don't see him having a chance vs the Rockhold or maybe a few other top guys, so if he just keeps fighting lower tier guys where he should win, then cool.  I just don't like seeing these champs go out they way some have.  ", 
        "He has for sure diminished, you just chose the wrong traits of his to highlight as the ones that have degraded. I'd say it's primarily his reaction time (you can think of it as speed). Chin too, but it's not that bad still.", 
        "Unless you're AP and are a complete machine ", 
        "Without context that's such a strange statement to make, but I agree 100%", 
        "100%", 
        "Hey Big Brown! ", 
        "GSP is definitely First Team All Body in my books, *for suuuure*", 
        "WVWERY FANTASTIC BODY!", 
        "Can we just once have a conversation that doesn't involve guys physiques? \n\nEdit: Didn't get the reference :( thats ok", 
        "No. That's the only reason I watch fights, for the bangin' bods and cutie patooties.", 
        "Thick. Solid. Tight.", 
        "Thin. Soft. Loose. ", 
        "Sculpted. Supple. Sublime.", 
        "Raw. Flabby. Ordinary. ", 
        "Floppy, voluptuous, moist", 
        "OBEREEM OBEREEM\n\nWOW\n\nWOW \n\nOBEREEM", 
        "https://twitter.com/Firas_Zahabi/status/709668015109967872?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw\n\nFiras confirming it.", 
        "This makes Dana stealing his belt in the shower even more Poignant.", 
        "> even more Poignant.\n\nLuke Thomas is that you ? \n", 
        "Please, I wish. Luke Thomas is Anderson Cooper of mma. With his lucious beard and piercing gaze and his expertise. His sexy,  sexy expertise....\n\n\nWhat were we talking about again? ", 
        "How dare you compare anyone to the silver fox?", 
        "Well that explains why Conor got away with it. Seriously what other professional sports organization would have tolerated that?", 
        "What's this?", 
        "After the Hendricks fight, GSP was showering and Dana literally crept into the locker room and stole his belt. For real. That happened.", 
        "What? Why would he do that?", 
        "Dana is a fucking bitch and his mom got it right by naming him after a girl.", 
        "We got us a badass here, folks.", 
        "Yeah it is Dana White.  He is more badass than his fighters, haven't you heard.  He also says we are stupid fans so that might be why you haven't realized it yet. ", 
        "tru chainz man", 
        "I wish the Tito fight happened lol", 
        "Yep, all the roids in the world wouldn't help Dana.  ", 
        "And I don't even like Tito it's just a fact.", 
        "But Tito can't box for shit. Everyone knows that.", 
        "He's by no means perfect, but I'm just curious to know how Dana would have done :P ", 
        "Fuck, where did this come out? What did both parties say to it? That's fucking bizarre. Dana is hideous.\nedit: thanks for the info.", 
        ">\u201cI\u2019m taking my shower after the fight. I\u2019m in my suit and tie, after that, they passed by, took the belt and they left with it, without even telling me. I have the belts I won before, but I don\u2019t have the one from my last fight.\u201d\n\nNot quite as bad as \"Dana literally crept into the locker room\" but still pretty shitty. I remember GSP brought this up in an interview before, he seems to feel Dana and co were pissed that he was retiring with the belt so refused to allow it.", 
        "GSP has stated it in interviews after leaving the UFC.  You can probably easily find it on google.", 
        "True this.  I remember it happening after the fight.  On Sherdog there were a bunch of threads about it like right after the fight and before the press conference.  It seemed like some conspiracy shit at first, but it did happen.  ", 
        "They also tried to block him from going to that press conference. Dana started off the press conference saying that Georges was on the way to the hospital, and the behind the scenes people were telling Georges he couldn't go... He told them to try and stop him and Dana was all surprised when he showed up.", 
        "Is there a link to that press conference? What was dana's reasoning behind stealing George's belt? Did George win that fight against Henderson? ", 
        "[Link to press conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OL9KQjL05M)\n\n[Dana talking about the fight](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OL9KQjL05M&t=13m23s)\n\n[GSP arriving at the press conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OL9KQjL05M&t=38m55s)\n\n[Fight statistics I found from a quick search](http://blog.fightmetric.com/2013/11/st-pierre-vs-hendricks-official-ufc.html?utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=twitter) (I like this one because it gives you the round by round stats, and you can kind of understand how the judges mad their decision)\n\nGSP won the fight by split decision, but many people think that Hendricks won. Going off of memory, it seemed like Hendricks inflicted more damage and seemed to overpower Georges at times during the fight. However, I've read some pretty good cases for GSP winning on points over here, so I don't think it was as egregious an error as Dana is making it out to be.", 
        "Dana's reasoning... Who knows, it's not a secret that he's a dick to anyone that doesn't do what he wants. I'm sure he was pissed that his biggest star was walking away from the sport during his prime at very tough time for the UFC. \n\nThis is the post fight press conference: https://youtu.be/6OL9KQjL05M?t=736", 
        "He's either joking or he's lost his mind. One of the UFC assistants grabbed the belt to put it on the press conference table.", 
        "That's odd, I guess they were planning to put out in front of Hendricks? From what I recall, UFC staff were blocking Georges from getting into the press conference, he had to politely boss his way in.", 
        "No they were going to put in on front of where GSP's spot was, whether he went or not. Regardless, that's not the belt that he keeps. They have a separate belt that they use in the ring and conferences. The one they keep is given later. I dont necessarily buy that they were trying to keep GSP away from the presser either. I think the rep who he talked to was just confused. No way to know for sure as Dana's word isn't worth much.", 
        "Scroll to 27:34 https://youtu.be/6OL9KQjL05M\n\nDo you see a belt on the table half way through a press conference?\n\nScroll to sometime earlier and you will hear Dana say and I quote:\n\n\"Georges got out of the octagon, into an ambulance, and straight to the hospital.\" \n\n\nThe belt didn't show up on the table until Georges arrived which he wasn't supposed to do.\n\nIf Georges was supposed to be there the belt would already been on the table marking his place.", 
        "That's straight from GSP, not Dana.\n\nThe rep told GSP he wasn't allowed to go out to the presser while Dana lied and said Georges went straight to the hospital which was complete bullshit.", 
        "I know GSP said that . I'm saying I think that rep was confused. I think it's likelier that there was some miscommunication going on. The only one who would know for sure about that is Dana though and we can't trust him.", 
        "Idk Dana was trying to create pressure for their rematch. I don't know what goes on inside that egg my friend.", 
        "Hey watch your mouth when you talk about me ya goof! Take your pick 12 twitter followers and fuck off.", 
        "I would've used disgusting before poignant, but great point.", 
        "Just when i thought i couldn't like GSP anymore, i have another reason to like him both as a fighter and person. He was the epitome of what a great champion should be.", 
        "Champions should be the best fighter in their division. he was that. ", 
        "Op said great champion", 
        "I am still calling that subjective. To me, Nick Diaz could still be a great champion despite what GSP himself said about him.", 
        "He still kept his original UFC belt, they give you a new one every time you defend your title - so he would have had loads.", 
        "Probably didn't have anywhere to store them", 
        "I think thats what the title is saying.\n\nEach new belt he received would be given away.", 
        "Yeah when he won against Matt Hughes he was genuinely on top of the world, I can't believe he would have given away that belt. ", 
        "I think most people know this, in fact the whole story doesn't make any sense if you don't know this. How do you give away a belt multiple times if you don't get multiples of that belt?", 
        "Wow he kept one of them for himself? What a monster! ^^^/s", 
        "This is not true. I've done many articles in the past about this, but if you want more information\n\nhttp://belttalk.com/blog/?p=43", 
        "Do you have a TLDR? I understood that GSP has had a ton of belts, and given them away to lots of people.", 
        "They stopped giving away new belts every defense a while back. Due to the period where GSP was champion he has numerous belts for reasons such as switching over to new design, losing then regaining the belt, etc.\n", 
        "He could have gotten a shitty shelf from Ikea to put them on like Dominick Cruz.", 
        "I think it'd be cool if there was just one super fancy belt for each weight and just pass it around, maybe engrave the name like the Stanley Cup", 
        "How come mighty mouse only has one belt?", 
        "Because they stopped giving a new belt away each defense, I don't know exactly why but I believe the theory is they don't want to see a bunch of UFC belts being sold by fighters when they retire.", 
        "Correct. A new belt is only given now when the belt changes hands. But if you defend a title you don't get a new belt anymore.", 
        "they could just do it like the Oscars where you have to sign a contract requiring you to offer the statue to the Academy for one dollar before you can sell it to anyone else ", 
        "I don't really see the point for UFC belts. I wouldn't have a single belt, but a single one per champ makes sense.", 
        "Yeah if anything, just have 1 belt, and only the champ can get it.  ", 
        "I believe his original one was from when they still actually made them out of valuable metals... it's worth some huge amount before they start using much cheaper replicas. Only a few of the champions actually have them. Doesn't surprise me at all that he does this with the new versions if he has one of the originals at home.  ", 
        "None of the belts are worth huge money materially speaking. They used to cost more because they were hand made in the USA by Dave Millican. But they've since moved on to a cheaper source. There was a really long forum post explaining this stuff in detail but my googlefu is weak right now. \n\nHttp://www.davemillicanbelts.com/ufc.htm", 
        "You can tell they used to be made differently if you watch the old press conferences and see how different his is to the newer champs. You could even see a difference between Jones' and Cormiers' in that recent press conference ", 
        "I once read that they use company belts for the press events usually, they don't make the fights bring theirs. I didn't know of that was true or not but it would make sense...", 
        "would be sick if they gave the champ a legit belt and then had like some kinda metal piece or jewel or something to add onto it for each title defense.", 
        "The do this in Glima (Icelandic wrestling). [The belt](http://www.justgoplacesblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/IMG_5513.jpg) consists of lots of little metal shields, and when you win it, another shield will be added, engraved with your name. IIRC, the same belt has been used for decades, and once a new champions shield is added, an old one has to be taken off and is kept with other champions shields in a display case.\n\n", 
        "I never knew that, Id love to see photos if they're out there.", 
        "https://twitter.com/bjpenndotcom/status/709944784173932544\nAm I living in a different Universe?", 
        "Hilarious!", 
        "I had to screen shot it just in case BJ see it and has it taken down.  lol", 
        "Completely different view from Hendricks who wouldn't even let you take a picture with his belt because you didn't earn it.", 
        "I thought that was Jon Jones.  ", 
        "Nah, def Hendricks.\n\nSurprisingly, Jon Jones apparently it's pretty good with fans.", 
        "Nah, Hendricks. I remember when that TV reporter asked to hold it and he said no and she thought he was joking but he wasn't lol...awkward as fuck. ", 
        "Jones wouldn't sign the replica belts.\n\nhttp://www.bloodyelbow.com/2011/7/15/2277363/ufc-champion-jon-jones-title-belt\n\n> JONES: It's a silly one. I would get rid of the replica belts.\n\n> **Like the ones they sell at the events?**\n\n> JONES: Yeah. I hate it when people come up to me with a belt that looks exactly like mine and they ask me to sign it. I worked three times a day for three years to get this [light heavyweight championship] belt, and now this guy asking me for an autograph has one just like it. Are you serious? I mean it's not as heavy, but it looks just the same.\n\n> **I like that. I don't think it's silly at all.**\n\n> JONES: I never sign those belts.", 
        "Man, what an ahole.  I remember when he was at least moderately liked, but I feel like he's completely thrown away any goodwill with the fans with his attitude and weight cutting issues.", 
        "He was always a jackass, people just got to know him better. ", 
        "I remember he said that and like the first thing I remember seeing after Lawler won was a picture of him and a young fan with the belt on his shoulder.", 
        "Lawler seems like the kind of guy who would have great stories over drinks. ", 
        "Reminds me in a way of Ron Artest/Metta World Peace/The Panda's Friend raffling his NBA championship off for charity. The one thing that he'd fought for his whole career, and he gave it up right away. I had a ticket in that. ", 
        "His championship ring, or like his actual historical spot on that Lakers team? Players don't play for the hardware, generally. They play for the accomplishment of winning. I think a lot of guys don't care about the jewlery that comes with winning.", 
        "That makes sense when they're current and everyone knows who they are. I think they probably end up caring more about the physical proof a lot more later in life.", 
        "Gave the first one to his mom, IIRC.", 
        "Yeah i think i heard it when he was with joe buck. Whoever helped him get the belt for that time , he gave them the belt. ", 
        "I hate you George Saint-Pierre! You are such a classy guy, you make me feel like a scumbag.", 
        "I like how you spelled both his first and last name flawlessly. Good on you bud.", 
        "Damn dude. We live in such a fucked up world where it is shocking to see people like this. How crazy is that? Good on GSP for being a person who seems to be virtually ego free. What a true warrior. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Woosh?", 
        "this is the dumbest comment i have read all day.", 
        "What?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "... Yeah you do that man... hope you have a good one... ", 
        "Damn he looks pretty big in that photo", 
        "It's just the angle", 
        "I'm not that small either, maybe 5'9\"-5'10\"", 
        "His book helped me out a lot during a tough time in my life.  ", 
        "Hespect", 
        "[**@JthunderP**](https://twitter.com/JthunderP):\n>[2016-03-15 02:52:39 UTC](https://twitter.com/JthunderP/status/709572992838279168)\n\n>@Firas\\_Zahabi [@GeorgesStPierre](https://twitter.com/GeorgesStPierre) this is Awsome \u2694\ud83d\udc4c\ud83c\udffb\ud83d\udc4f\ud83c\udffb\ud83d\udc4f\ud83c\udffb\ud83d\udc4f\ud83c\udffb\ud83d\udc4f\ud83c\udffb\ud83d\udc4f\ud83c\udffb [*pic.twitter.com*](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cdjo34MWwAAKpa8.jpg) [^[Imgur]](http://i.imgur.com/uJ1IxTf.jpg)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4amj6q%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "true champion. watch him on joe buck's show, he the real deal ", 
        "legend and pioneer the game could learn a lot from GSP\n", 
        "It's a karate thing.", 
        "The truest champion this sport has ever seen.", 
        "G.O.A.T", 
        "Wasn't this the top post like... 2 days ago?", 
        "welcome to r/mma...", 
        "Not all of them. I think he says he kept the first one and then gave away all the rest after that. Source: I read the book a while back.", 
        "I wasn't aware that they got multiple belts, I was always under the impression that there was just one and you kept it until you lost and they gave it to the next guy.", 
        "SEG days you got a new belt every fight, as the side plates had the date, and opponent on it. IE: See Tito and Frank's numerous belts.\n\nZuffa days, they give a new belt when you win it. They gave champions new belts when the designs changed. You do not get a new belt for defending the belt. A new belt is always on hand at the event in case of new champion, but if existing champion retains, that belt is taken back from them after the event.", 
        "That's cool and all, but why does the UFC give them a new belt each time?", 
        "Think of it like a trophy.  If you're a 7x world champ, you should have 7 belts", 
        "Cause he keeps giving them away.", 
        "Surprisingly, a good book to read if you are an MMA fan.", 
        "How much are the belts worth?\n\nIs there any real gold on them at all?", 
        "My belts are garbage - Mike Tyson ", 
        "That's awesome. ", 
        "i miss gsp :[\n", 
        "If you're doing it for the belt then you're doing it for the wrong reason. High level Bushido there!", 
        "They say he gave his last belt to the judges", 
        "Didnt Anderson do this too?", 
        "Compare that to Conor McGregor. ", 
        "sad but true", 
        "Why?", 
        "God damnit you affable Quebecois. Every time I think you can't be more awesome, something comes out about you that just makes you more awesome. What next, you train seeing-eye dogs for autistic blind people?\n\nArgh. He's so awesome that the envy makes me want to be a better person.", 
        "those things aint cheap either theyre around 300k", 
        "Idk why you are getting downvoted. Been said many times that the goldvalue alone is >300k. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=428lVpe2VXo", 
        "Because it's definitely not gold.\n\nIf you think the UFC gives away a gold belt that's worth even a ten thousand dollars, you're wrong.", 
        "how do you know? right now the only source is chris weidman, how is he so mistaken? do you have any information or is this just your assumption?", 
        "The belts are not made of real gold.\n\nThe UFC belts when they were made by real beltmakers (J-Mar, Reggie Parks, and Dave Millican) use zinc as a base layer, then are electroplated in gold.\n\nThe early SEG era UFC belts are around $900 to make.\n\nThe later Zuffa 2 and 3 layer belts around $1,500-$2,000 to make.\n\n\nYears ago, we were trying to get a license deal to allow fans to purchase the belts from Dave and pay a fee to UFC. The proposed price was going to be around $5,500 per belt. Eventually Dana nixed this.\n\nI wrote up numerous articles detailing this, and the switch from these handmade belts, to using what were essentially modified versions of the mass produced replica belts. \n\nThey haven't given away real belts since before UFC 107.\n\nI've answered this and numerous questions regarding the UFC belts here:\nhttp://belttalk.com/blog/?p=43\n\nThere are also a bunch of old threads about belts on the UG I wrote, but I no longer support that crooked place so I can't search for those old threads.\n\nI am a beltmaker, collector and am friendly with pretty much every beltmaker, so if you guys ever have any questions, just ask me.\n\nAs far as I know, the ONLY belt to ever be made of solid gold, was the WBC belt given to Mayweather after beating Canelo Alvarez.", 
        "> As far as I know, the ONLY belt to ever be made of solid gold, was the WBC belt given to Mayweather after beating Canelo Alvarez.\n\nYou must be forgetting Ric Flairs NWA World Title!", 
        "The Domed Globe was called the 10lbs of Gold, but it didn't weight 10lbs and it wasn't made of Gold.\n\nThe Big Gold is made of German silver with brush plated gold. This belt actually was 10lbs.\n\nI just happened to have helped with the book on the Big Gold belt, so if you are interested in reading more about it, check out MidAtlanticGateway.com and order the combo back of 10lbs of Gold and Big Gold books!", 
        "Uh.... no.", 
        "Uh.. yes? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=428lVpe2VXo Depending on the gold price the pure gold value is alone more than 300k than there is the sentimental value. It also would probably sell for much more on ebay, since there are rich guys who would probably love to buy one.", 
        "if the one's he's given after he's won his first championship are 100% authentic, that's a really stupid financial decision considering how many 100% authentic ones he would have. He alone would have 12 belts @ $300,000. That's $3.6 mil. Then factor in the other divisions and champions and their defenses. That's a stupid amount of money to be spending on something as dumb as that. \n\n", 
        "Its true something doesnt add up. Wonder if its just plated gold or something, hard to find out it seems. This was the closest to any info I could find out. I found another source saying its a gold/silver mix. The heavier the weigthclass the more gold it has lol, thats why the lighter division belts look silverish. I dont know if I should believe it tbh but who knows :D", 
        "they only get four after that they have to pay for them", 
        "Ain't no fucking way they're giving out $300k belts after every title fight. That's more than most of the champions get paid.", 
        "Not GSP. He's probably has large amounts of pocket change.", 
        "UFC stopped making the pricey ones a long time ago ", 
        "how come chris weidman thinks its worth 300 grand then? ", 
        "If he comes back to 200 he will rip Diaz's head off. I'd love to see the Lawler fight though. ", 
        "Honestly, the thought of GSP whispering to Firaz that that belt was going to be his while they were still in the center of the Octagon.......kinda made me tear up. ", 
        "Why did I tear up from this", 
        "The antithesis of everything conor. ", 
        "I wonder if he gave one to his cornerman who always greased him up during fights?", 
        "Are you that delusional ", 
        "http://m.bleacherreport.com/articles/394275-a-year-removed-revisiting-grease-gate-penn-vs-st-pierre-2#", 
        "^ Someone's favorite fighter got his ass beat by GSP.", 
        "Nah, I just was never a fan of his personally. Then I was on a youtube binge 2 days ago and someone made of video about him being busted by the NVSAC for greasing during fights so he could slip out of submissions.", 
        "Whoa. This is pre-beard. That, like doesn't even count right?", 
        "Didn't achieve super powers via mullet yet", 
        "Lol Elite XC was such a nut house. I miss it. ", 
        "It also gave us this [little gem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufWMFLjvDTQ)", 
        "context?", 
        "http://articles.latimes.com/2008/oct/09/sports/sp-mma9\n\nBasically, back in '08 Elite XC paid Seth Petruzelli extra money to stay standing with Kimbo Slice. It backfired when he KO'd Slice in 14 seconds, and went on radio saying\n>they gave me the money, to stand and trade with [Slice]. They didn't want me to take him down. Let's just put it that way.\n\nThat, my friend, is fucking illegal.", 
        "I'm curious how that's illegal? They didn't pay him to lose the fight.", 
        "I believe that's called \"fixing a fight.\"", 
        "Promoter's have zero business in telling fighters how to fight. Paying a guy to play to his weakness is doing just that. \n\nBribery or conspiracy to commit bribery to fix a fight is a federal offense in the States. It is a criminal offense if committed.\n", 
        "Bad ref stand up changed this fight", 
        "One of the most famous bad stand ups. Really upsetting stuff.", 
        "I know this from the 40 times it was mentioned on the JRE.", 
        "That was the worst stand up I've seen since Rita Rudner.", 
        "I never forgot about that after all these years. I was screaming at my tv like the ref could hear me calling him an idiot.", 
        "Yeah I think Roy was on his way to submitting him. ", 
        "Roy had just let go of the grip actually. You can still maybe say it was a bad standup but there was no submission danger at that moment.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cmr9hYu8v4Q#t=4m40s", 
        "Hard to say.  Maybe Roy let go of the DWC when he heard \"improve your position.\"", 
        "In any case he had let go of AA's wrist and their was no danger of a sub at that moment.", 
        "Idk, he had the arm isolated in side control. Terrible standup no matter how you look at it.", 
        "Look at the vid I linked and you'll see clearly that RN let go of the grip before the standup. ", 
        "I see that, but the arm is still isolated while he has side control. Still a great position to be in. If he was in side control for another minute with no attempt, yeah stand them up, but he literally just got done with a sub attempt. I don't understand the standup at all", 
        "Aparantly no one on this chain realizes this was elite xc and they always had crazy fast stand ups. You were given no time at all to work on the ground. \n\n*Oh not ground and pounding the fuck out of him?* STAND EM UP\n\n*Not diving on a submission and rolling all over the place?* STAND EM UP\n\nElite XC was such a shit show, it hurts to even call it MMA.", 
        "Maybe???", 
        "If you start about a minute before what I linked to you'll see that they ~~really~~ *were* stuck in the same position for a long time with RN having the grip and AA having his hand locked to his thigh so it was reasonable in my view. ", 
        "Roy was in dominant position. It was a bad standup. This is MMA. ", 
        "position isn't enough. you have to be doing damage or working a submission. ", 
        "i cant recall other fights stood up from half guard. Furthermore, I think stand ups are a really bad idea. you already see fighters from the bottom with the plan of hold them tight and wait for the ref. that strategy is only going to become more popular. ", 
        "If a fighters game plan is to hold a person on the ground for 25 minutes, that's not mma. That's getting a dominate position and waiting for the time to run out.  Equivalinant to scoring a few good punches round one then running to make sure the opponent doesnt get a point tge rest of the match. Doesn't give anyone a chance and bad for the sport. At some point it's no longer skills but time.", 
        "i am well aware of the danger of lay and prey. however the counter to this is not rewarding the bottom fighter for doing a seatbelt in full guard and wait for the ref to save him. that is not fighting either. Dont score takedowns as anything only strikes subs would prevent lay and prey. getting up from the bottom gets harder and harder as the weight increases i get that. Just how i feel about it and i am well aware my opinion holds no weight on how the spot will be officiated. ", 
        "100% accurate. They were at a standstill for almost a full minute, even when Roy had the submission 90% of the way there with the full kimura grip. He just needed to clear Arlovski's left leg to have the path open. \n\nFrom the Ref's point of view, they appeared to be stalling EVEN WHEN HE HAD THE GRIP LOCKED IN - so as soon as the grip gets released and his likelihood of finishing WORSENS, its very reasonable to assume he would just coast to catch his breath since he couldnt even make it happen with the full grip.", 
        "If I recall he had a double wrist lock grip and he was working a kimura.", 
        "No, he let go of it and was in side control.", 
        "Yeah he was very active on the ground .. It was a shady stand up ", 
        "Yea he was winning, horrible stand up.", 
        "Agreed, Andre was losing, not keeping it on the ground was a mistake ", 
        "[Slowmo](http://i.imgur.com/rmRYNcZ.gifv)\n\n[Alternate angle, slowmo](http://i.imgur.com/QhldO5v.gifv)\n\nI love the way Arlovski kicks out Nelson's leg then breaks him with punches", 
        "[Another Alternate angle](http://i37.tinypic.com/5lwgog.jpg)", 
        "This is what I came for, thanks", 
        "Gimme your lunch, I SAID GIVE IT\n\n\"nooooez\"", 
        "Lmao who thinks of this", 
        "My naive years when I thought Arlovski was just beating a fat fuck can. Now I'm aware he's a fat fuck with a solid chin and a killer right.", 
        "Roy was pretty unknown even then.", 
        "He's the only fat fighter I've seen where it didn't seem like a problem. People even have shit to liddell when he had a little gut. It's for protecting the core, I guess? He'd probably knock me out with a tester jab.", 
        "> He's the only fat fighter I've seen where it didn't seem like a problem.\n\n\"early days of mma\" Tank was similar. Good enough grappler and hard enough hitter to make the gut not hold him back much.", 
        "Forgot about him, what a monster. How big do you have to be at 6', 300lbs and still not be that fat, haha.", 
        "And underrated jits.", 
        "Has anyone ever seen him use his BJJ in a MMA contest?\n\nThinking back, why did he not sub Kimbo?", 
        "He was already doing fine laying and pounding on him.  I'd love to see them keep it standing though.", 
        "> Has anyone ever seen him use his BJJ in a MMA contest?\n\nOn his series of TUF, he put a guy in crucifix and pitter-pattered his face until the ref was forced to stop it.", 
        "Yeah Kimbo Slice straight off the street. Not saying he isn't good on the ground just that he doesn't use it in an MMA context.", 
        "And everyone hated him for that style, so he said fuck it and just took punches and gave punches and became a fan favorite.  Goes to show the average MMA fan could give a shit about someone winning with technical dominance. ", 
        "I think even Roy forgets he's OK on the ground.", 
        "Mostly because actually getting there is the problem, his takedowns are horrible", 
        "Can you imagine how much of a nightmare an in shape Roy Nelson would be cutting down to an appropriate weight class? His right hand, that chin, his BJJ, and the vast amounts of anger from not eating....", 
        "Sounds like DADA5000", 
        "Someone post a fucking video of this standup already instead of what you think you remember.  \n\nEdit: Fuck it ill do it myself https://youtu.be/2OhcjsvdsAM?t=253\n\nRoy a 1000% let go of the sub and settled into side control.  Was it an early standup, sure, id like to see him do work but was it the worst in MMA history, not even remotely fucking close you drama queens.  Also, Roy didn't seem that upset by it. ", 
        "Coming from a pro fighter, that was a really bad standup that should have never happened. The kimura is a hard submission to finish if you don't have his arm completely out of place when you initially grab it, so it makes sense for Roy to let it go instead of expending a ton of energy on a submission that he was most likely not going to finish. Roy immediately started landing knees and was not just holding position doing nothing.\n\nOn the note of him not protesting the standup, that's not his job. It is ultimately at the referee's discretion, and he is supposed to do exactly as the ref tells him. Even if the referee does his job poorly.", 
        "I don't think it was a good stand up I'm just saying it's not the worst stand up ever.  It's not even top 10 material.  You could tell the ref wanted to stand it up during the submission for whatever reason but he waited for Roy to abandon it before he stood it.  \n\nRoy used it to pass and never got to exploit the pass, I get it.  But if were speculating on what would have happened at that moment, based on how winded Roy looked, I'd say he intended to camp out in side control for a while before doing anything else.  Is that wrong, nope, just wasn't the worst stand up ever. ", 
        "One of if not the worst standups in mma history.", 
        "I don't think it was. Nelson let go of the sub and was sitting in side control and not trying to advance his position before the ref stood them up. I would have let them stay on the ground a little longer before standing them up too, but I don't think it was one of the worse in the sport's history.", 
        "i'm new to MMA. what does this mean?", 
        "Basically, Roy Nelson had Andre Arlovski controlled on the mat, and was working on a submission when the ref ordered the two to stand up and \"reset\". Refs can do this when there is little to no activity while two fighters on the mat. The problem here is that not only was there plenty of activity, Arlovski was in serious danger of being submitted by Nelson, and was being controlled on the mat. As a result of the standup, Arlovski got the better of Nelson and the rest is history. The argument is the ref probably cost Nelson the fight and his consciousness by standing them up. \n\nWelcome to the community by the way! ", 
        "Thanks for explaining :)", 
        "Genki sudo's one is up there", 
        "I remember the Gonzaga-Crocop 1 standup also being pretty horrendous.  Didn't really matter in that case, though.", 
        "Worse than Rogan?", 
        "Your joke right here is better than his whole comedy career. He can be funny in conversation but his stand up is pretty, pretty, pretty bad", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynimet1uY_Q", 
        "Didn't laugh. Didn't snort. I did nod. That's a decent bit", 
        "Not even close to one I saw in bellator. I don't remember who the fighters were, but fighter A had fighter B's back with a body triangle locked in (I believe) and fighter B whipped his head back and headbutted fighter A. Fighter B got an official warning and the fight was stood up. ", 
        "Is this the fight? \n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TS6ArBlo8wo", 
        "I'm pretty sure it was another one with that same ref", 
        "That was Nick Rossborough vs someone. The headbutting dude actually got deducted a point and the fight ended in a draw", 
        "Ah my mistake I thought he literally had nothing happen to him. Its still most definitely the worst standup in MMA history, a dominant position was taken away because the fighter was fouled. ", 
        "Great inside leg kick to make Roy square up for the combination. Arlovski was vicious in his prime, but still technical and *always* fun to watch.", 
        "Still such a bullshit standup that led to this. One of the worst stand ups in MMA history. Vitor Belfort vs. Anthony Johnson is another that comes to mind.", 
        "Also, Kimbo was getting dominated by James Thimpson on the ground before their b.s standup.", 
        "I don't think there's a man on the planet who could have taken that last right hook. Arlovski is one of the greats at HW, but my main memory of him will always be [jumping](http://rs999.pbsrc.com/albums/af117/wonkalumpsMMA/fedor-arlovski-1.gif~c200) into Fedor's punch getting KOd in mid air.", 
        "Arlovski was just so fast and powerful. So glad he's back being good.", 
        "When was this?", 
        "October 2008 at EliteXC: Heat. Fun fact- this was the event that Kimbo/Ken was supposed to happen", 
        "Damn. The night Kimbo killed EliteXC. Crazy. ", 
        "You mean Seth?", 
        "I was wondering why Nelson lost via KO...no mullet power", 
        "Andrei and his one-two right hand, every time. I really hope he's a little more dynamic against Overeem or he will turn into a noodle.", 
        "I feel like the beard helps mask where his chin is and that way its harder for fighters to hit his chin. ", 
        "My fav fighter of all time!  So glad he came back--at least for a little bit..  \ud83d\ude1e", 
        "Holy shit. That would have popped my head off.", 
        "It's pretty common that as you age while fighting a lot you become much more susceptible due to repeated head trauma. I figured it would be sooner or later as long as he kept fighting.", 
        "Andrei Arlovski in his prime was such a bad motherfucker.", 
        "Doesn't everyone say that when you get knocked out once, your chin will never be the same and will be easier to ko?  Seems like that KO reinforced his chin going forward", 
        "Its because there is no 5 inch padding of beard anymore.", 
        "Nah, he just has one of the best chins ever.", 
        "No shooped gif with the McDonald's bag posted yet? Where's it at motherfucker?!.", 
        "https://twitter.com/mma_gifs_/status/576080216721920000", 
        "The damage was actually done by the left kick.", 
        "So that big knock out punch at the end was unnecessary?", 
        "It ended the show.", 
        "Dark Souls is a fun computer game.", 
        "I want the other gif.\n\nDon't play dumb , you know which one I mean.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Also this one totally doesn't count", 
        "If it makes you feel better, Hunt's the first and only guy to KO Nelson in the UFC", 
        "He wasn't actually out. Good stoppage, but he was no more out than Bisping was. If you call Silva's knee a KO, then I guess this is too.", 
        "The UFC has 524 men under contract, and only 63 men's fights booked. I used wiki so I may have missed a few fights.\n\nIt's pretty close in proportions actually.", 
        "Lazy bitches", 
        "0.24 for men\n\n0.22 for women\n\nOP is grasping at straws.\n\nI hope OP isn't trying to go full Tumblrina on us.", 
        "/r/mma possibly is the Tumblrest sub I've seen", 
        "While I can't possibly agree with that, it sure seems like there are a lot more sensitive types posting on /r/mma these days. \n\nA lot of people looking for something to be offended about. ", 
        "Yep.  Stats don't lie but people who interpret them to support a political view are notorious for it.", 
        "lol people must live in a different world than the real one.", 
        "/r/Tumblrinaction\n\nThere you go.\n", 
        "IIRC, per their contracts Zuffa is required to offer them three fights a year (presuming the fighters are eligible to compete).  If for some reason Zuffa can't get them enough fights, they have to get them a fight in another org.\n\nSo for example Calderwood, who OP mentions \"can't get a fight\" fought twice last year and was booked to headline a third card until she got hurt and pulled out.  Zingano was voluntarily taking time off and only started asking for a fight in the last month or so.  Kaufman took time off because she was in a car accident (and came back to lose twice last year).\n\nThe UFC ain't perfect, but this sounds like much ado about nothing.", 
        "Where are you getting your stats from? \n\nBecause I want to know how many male fighters are under contract, and how many male fights are booked. My guess is the percentage will be somewhat similar to that of the women.\n\n> For comparison there's 42 Heavyweights on the roster page, with 9 fights booked in the next 6 shows.\n\nThat looks like cherry picking to me. \n\nDon't present just one division if you want to make a good point which stands up to scrutiny.\n\nFurthermore, the full fight cards are only fully fleshed out up to UFC 198. We have no idea what else is getting booked from UFC 199 to UFC 206, plus the free cards. \n\nOnly about 40% of the UFC 199 card is announced. \n\nUFC 200 fight card isn't even announced yet, but you can be sure Zuffa will include at least 1 women's bout.  \n\nI'm not saying you're wrong, I'm just saying your argument is extremely incomplete.", 
        "There are 29 Flyweights under contract and only the title fight booked. 2/29=~7%. 14/62=~23%. As of right now, female fighters are booked almost 4 times more than Flyweights. These little guys are the one's getting the shaft, not the women.", 
        "That's a better comparison to make, i guess we can add the Flyweights to this mess.", 
        "If you grouped up all the women from each weight class together, then the only fair comparison is for you to group up all the men together. \n\nYou can't cherry pick single men's divisions to contrast vs all women from all divisions. \n\nThat is purposely misleading people with incomplete cherry picked data. Which makes it sound like you have an agenda.", 
        "Or I noticed a pattern with the women asking for fights on twitter, interviews etc. and looked into it. No agenda. Though you literally just used the word 'tumblrina' in one of your 5 comments in this thread, so maybe you're the one with an agenda. \n\nI grouped them up because it was easier math to do than to split the divisions up. That's all. Add the Flyweight numbers into it too, my point stays the same. ", 
        "No offense meant, but I think your point was shown to be wrong. \n\n0.24 booking rate for UFC men\n\n0.22 booking rate for UFC women\n\nThat is not a meaningful difference. ", 
        "Do you have a number for the the ratio of active men on the entire roster who are booked to fight? That would be a fair comparison to make.", 
        "That's because Women's MMA is still very young in the sport and quite frankly don't sell as much as men's fights. That's just reality.", 
        "The first number is the shocking one. ", 
        "ufc listened too much to complainers about saturation and now they an't mature their product effectively because they are short about 10 cards a year", 
        "Sorry dude, but probably 55 of those women suck and are terrible to watch.  WMMA is just way too thin.  I'd rather they actually only have top 3 ranked women in the UFC and let a show like invicta sort out the talent.  Nothing is more boring than watching a 3 round shit decision of WMMA.", 
        "Craziest thing is despite how thin it is, they still want to get a 125 pound division going. \n\n", 
        "Yea, it's insanity.", 
        "Wthin 5 years there will be enough talent to make it worthwhile, so nothing wrong with them prepping for it.", 
        "I like the optimism, time will tell. ", 
        "Gina Carano was basically the first WMMA star. Before her there were only a tiny handful of women competing in MMA. \n\n6 years have passed since Gina last fought, but since then women's MMA has gained a couple divisions in the UFC, an all-female fight organization, and its first legit WMMA superstar. \n\nI think it fairly safe to say that within another 5 years, the WMMA talent pool will easily have tripled in size, if not more, much more.\n\nThere are roughly 150 pro WMMA fighters at this moment, I expect that in 5 years time there will be at least 500 of them. And the talent level will be much higher than it is now, which ends up making weight classes more important. ", 
        "Problem is that there really is still only one star at the moment. Majority of casual fans know who Rousey is, don't know any other women. ", 
        "This is a very good point that shouldn't be overlooked. \n\nIf you don't draw eyeballs, if you don't sell tickets, or if you don't attract the media, then you don't make the company money. \n\nRegardless, the UFC owes each able fighter 3 fights per year, and as long as Zuffa respects that, for both genders, then there is absolutely nothing \"unfair\" about women having a booking rate of 0.22, versus 0.24 for the men. ", 
        "Zingano hasn't been looking for a fight until recently.  Sure she wanted a rematch with Ronda but that's different than just being out looking for a fight.\n\nAnyhow that's 14 women out of 62 that are currently scheduled for fights.  I know I know you shouldn't bring math into things.  It just kills the social justice high, but lets look at this....\n\nLets see, carry the 5, divide by the square root...\n\n22.5% of the female fighters in the UFC right now are currently scheduled for fights I would wager that's pretty much that same % of male UFC fighters currently scheduled for fights.\n\nAt least four of those  female fighters just fought a couple of weeks ago.  One of them is making that all important cross gender reboot of Roadhouse we've all been waiting decades for.  \n\nI think you've taken a stat that proves women are getting at least as many fights as that men based on the percentage of the roster and decided to interpret it in a really dishonest way.\n\nBut hey, that's just what you do when you're an SJW.  I mean, you have to have something to bitch about right?", 
        "What in the fuck are you on about?", 
        ">Pretty ridiculous if you ask me. **It wasn't bad enough they took these fighters' sponsorship opportunities** (a move that hurts the women more as they've fought way less under the Zuffa umbrella), but the vast majority of the women can't get a fight at all.\n\nLol, Cat Zigano just posted a picture about the Nissan Dealership that is sponsoring her by giving her a car. Not all sponsorships are gone. \n\n", 
        "Its really absurd, not just in the sense that its unfair to the women, but I feel like there's a demand for fights in the women's division and yet theyre underbooked. \n\nId rather watch two top 15 women fight rather than two TUF Brazil fighters who crack the top 120 of their division.", 
        "Are they truly \"under\"-booked though?\n\n", 
        "With the number of women who have come out and said they want to fight and haven't been given the opportunity to do so, I think they are. Its not a problem just the women face because you see it at men's 125 and 135 too. Its a general problem in the UFC", 
        "> With the number of women who have come out and said they want to fight and haven't been given the opportunity to do so\n\nI wonder if the data actually supports your claim. Because personally I have noticed quite a few UFC male fighters complaining about not getting booked, or not getting booked good fights, and so on. \n\nMaybe the sentiment is stronger with female UFC fighters, but the raw numbers don't seem to support that stance. \n\nWomen UFC fighters get booked at a (extremely) similar rate to men.", 
        "http://mmajunkie.com/2015/12/ufc-in-2015-a-ridiculously-robust-look-at-stats-streaks-skids-and-record-setters\n\nIf you take a look at this article about total fights in 2015, the women's divisions account for the two least booked divisions with women's 135 having only 20 fights booked for the year.\n\nI dont have the time to break the numbers down completely but I think the numbers do support that the women get less fights.", 
        "That's a good article, thanks for sharing. \n\nThat being said, total number of fights booked per weight class is pretty much completely irrelevant if it is not accompanied by a method with which to find out what the booking rate actually was for each weight class. \n\nOnly 20 Women's Bantam fights were booked in 2015. Out of how many female UFC Bantamweights? Was there a significant number of them unavailable to fight due to injures or other obligations?\n\nSimply saying that the women's classes were booked less often based simply on the year-end total numbers is incredibly misleading as those weight classes are probably the two smallest(in total amount of fighters) in the UFC.\n\nSo we're right back to the original point I made in this thread; without calculating actual booking ratios, the claims that women fighters are underbooked are nebulous, at best.  ", 
        "I think its unfair to say its completely irrelevant or incredibly misleading to bring up total number of fights when we have a general idea of the size of the divisions. \n\nCoupled with statements from fighters who have asked to be booked fights and cant seem to get one I think there is some room for concern. Sure a fighter like Paige or Ronda can get fights anytime they want but I do believe they are the exception not the rule. You can say the same thing when comparing sage northcutt to aljo. I just think youre going to find more cases of foghters asking to be more active and not getting fights in the women's divisions. \n\nIm pretty sure at the last invicta event there was a ufc fighter who went over there since she wasn't getting booked enough. Thats an issue since the ufc doesn't count invicta fights towards the Reebok sponsorship tiers. \n\nTheres tweets from female fighters asking Sean Shelby to please get them fights and the examples that Op mentioned. I just think its something that should be analyzed when theres this much smoke.", 
        "> I think its unfair to say its completely irrelevant or incredibly misleading to bring up total number of fights when we have a general idea of the size of the divisions. \n\nThat's exactly what booking ratio accounts for...\n\nAs of 2016: there are currently roughly 25 UFC women Bantamweights under contract with Zuffa as we speak. Roughly 30 female Strawweights. Over 110 male UFC WW. Roughly 80 male MW. Roughly 55 men Bantamweight. etc\n\nSo *of course* there will be more(total amount) men's fights booked as there are more men to book. But on a \"per capita\" basis, we've shown, in this very thread, that the numbers are almost identical. \n\nIts a non-issue.\n\n> Coupled with statements from fighters who have asked to be booked fights and cant seem to get one I think there is some room for concern. Sure a fighter like Paige or Ronda can get fights anytime they want but I do believe they are the exception not the rule. You can say the same thing when comparing sage northcutt to aljo. I just think youre going to find more cases of foghters asking to be more active and not getting fights in the women's divisions. \n\nVery subjective conclusion that is near impossible to support with actual data, but suit yourself.\n\n> Im pretty sure at the last invicta event there was a ufc fighter who went over there since she wasn't getting booked enough.\n\nThis is normal and part of the contracts. Zuffa is obligated to book healthy fighters to three fights per year, anything more you have to work for it. \n\n> Thats an issue since the ufc doesn't count invicta fights towards the Reebok sponsorship tiers. \n\nThis is a pretty good point. Are these \"on loan\" fighters not allowed to use their own sponsors when not fighting under the UFC banner? If yes, then this is a very *very* good point. If no, then this is mostly a moot point.\n\n> Theres tweets from female fighters asking Sean Shelby to please get them fights and the examples that Op mentioned. I just think its something that should be analyzed when theres this much smoke.\n\nI'm all for analyzing fighters' ability to make revenue and be treated fairly, but this \"smoke\" seems highly exaggerated. We often see male fighters also complaining about wanting to get booked. \n\nThese guys(and girls) have expenses, lives, and a short window of opportunity to ply their trade. So I don't blame them for making noise about wanting more work. \n\nLets analyze, but lets do it on sound foundations.\n\n\n", 
        "In any given division, you're going to have fighters who are injured, on hiatus, or have just recently fought.\n\nSo looking at the top 15 in WBW:\n\n* Tate - just fought\n* Holm - just fought\n* Rousey - hiatus\n* Zingano - likely booked in a undisclosed fight\n* Nunes - just fought\n* Pena - legal troubles?\n* **McMann - ?**\n* **Eye - ?**\n* Correia - upcoming fight with Pennington\n* Carmouche - injury rehab?\n* Kaufman - lost to a late replacement fighter somewhat recently\n* Shevchenko - just fought\n* Pennington - upcoming fight with Correia\n* de Randamie - injury rehab?\n* Murphy - fought somewhat recently\n* Reneau - fought somewhat recently\n\nThere are really only two fighters in the top 15 who haven't fought in a fairly long time and are actually healthy and available to fight. I don't think the underbooking is as egregious as it seems.", 
        "Conor's doubling down on touchbutt.", 
        "Not available. Taken down again?", 
        "Maybe not available in your country :(  Hopefully someone makes a mirror.", 
        "damn, guess you guys don't appreciate a dope edit... ", 
        "Comeback from what? It wasn't an injury or an accident, he got his ass beat by a better fighter. Too much drama trying to evoke all kinds of emotion for no reason", 
        "That was fucking awesome!\n\n\nBut seriously, he didn't lose the belt. He lost an exhibition match that provided him a \"wake up call\", back to reality. The guy is fine and he made millions off that fight. There are millions more to come, considering that he will be fine tuning his game like none other. Just reminds me of when GSP lost to Serra and came back to become GOAT. ", 
        "Exhibition match? ", 
        "The match wasn't as important to his brand as people make it seem to be", 
        "He can bounce back, but it certainly put a hole in his invincibility cloak. If he winds up losing to Edgar and then another loss at 55 it definitely won't be good for his brand. ", 
        "Maybe he meant bout?", 
        "Exhibition bout? That makes sense. Lol ", 
        "I really want to see this video but it just keeps getting taken down. ", 
        "Comeback? It's been a week and a half, fuck off with the triumphant tone. This reeks of ufc spin.", 
        "I think it's a better example for kids to see Conor, a popular fighter tap. Last thing you want is a bunch of kids getting choked unconscious cause they saw McGregor do it.", 
        "Nah, Kids don't look up to El Tappo anymore because he got stomped.", 
        "if a kid is doing things because of McGregor then we have a problem anyway. if they come to see his personality as something to mimic it would be more damaging than not tapping to a choke. he outwardly disrespects anyone that he sees as a potential threat, treats anyone that has less money than him as if they are not worthy and flaunts all of his material possessions as if it were a measure of a persons self worth. if i had a kid i'd worry about that more than him not tapping.", 
        "It probably would of been better for the kids to see a shit talker like McGregor get KO'd.  ", 
        "Lest us not forget [Angela Maganas incident](https://twitter.com/AngelaMagana1/status/661039363803865088) as a lesson as to tap.   There is nothing to gain from refusing to tap out of principle other than permanent damage.", 
        "Anyone who actually trains on a regular basis has no problem with tapping. If they claim they do, they are lying.\n\nYes I can appreciate someone like Matt Serra (a black belt) saying you should go out after talking all that shit, but HE (Matt) is TALKING SHIT.\n\nHe has tapped out a million times and would tell all his students and fighters to tap out. Fighting out of a choke like Holm is one thing, being face down eating punches without a chance in hell of getting out is another.\n\nLive to fight another day. ", 
        "Better than knowing youre done and toughing it out until your joint bends the wrong way", 
        "[Or Holm...](http://www.bloodyelbow.com/2016/3/15/11236624/paige-vanzant-i-wouldve-rather-have-gone-out-than-tap-out-vs-namajunas-mma-news)", 
        "Your brain goes whacky after about 2 secs in a sunk in RNC. She wasn't trying to be tough. She just was being choked and strangled.", 
        "I thought that Holm was actually trying to tap but couldn't.  She was raising her arm and couldn't do the full extension since she was arched on her back laying on top of Tate.  But I could be wrong", 
        "My thoughts as well. Clearly she tried to get out of it but she went to sleep before she could even tap, it seems.", 
        "That was my impression to. I thought she went out in the midst of tapping.", 
        "You haven't seen many people get strangled unconscious then. Her pawing at air is instinct and shows she has little training at how to get out of a choke.", 
        "She wasn't pawing at the air.  Her hands were going toward her neck.  Pawing at the air would be like going outwards trying to get away.  \n\nAnd what does tapping have anything to do with escaping a choke?  I'm sure she has tapped before in a scrim before.  ", 
        "Sometimes you just go out.  I've been in chokes before where I was in big trouble, but thought I was still in a good enough position to fight out.  ", 
        "This is what happened every time I've been choked out. I CAN SLIP OUT! Wake up with your training partners laughing at you.", 
        "She was punching air just before the lights went out, probably instinct taking over. At first I also thought she tried to tap, but when you look at it closely you see it's a punching motion, with both hands.", 
        "She said in the post fight presser she was fighting the whole time and didn't intend to tap. She thought if she could hang on like during the second round she'd make it out again. \n\nEdit quote:\n\n[>\u201cI just got a little bit lazy there for a second. As far as tapping, I just thought that I got out of it in the second round. The next thing you know I didn\u2019t tap, but \\[I was rendered unconscious\\],\u201d Holm stated.](http://www.rappler.com/sports/by-sport/other-sports/124877-holly-holm-refused-tap-ufc-miesha-tate)", 
        "I guess I'll take her word for it.  Although a lot of times tapping happens subconsciously(I think).  I do believe that since she was able to break free in the 2nd she probably thought she could've done it again which delayed it.  ", 
        "It definitely looked to me like she tried to tap, she just waited too long.", 
        "I'm sure Connor was thinking about the children when he did it.", 
        "Just like that chick who refused to tap out to a twister. I remember seeing photos of her on this sub in body brace n shit", 
        "Angela Magana - what a moron of epic proportions.", 
        "Surely refusing to tap to a spinal lock can't be *that* dumb... right guys? ^... ^guys?", 
        "But imagine catching an opponent in a twister and he refuses to tap, what would you do? \nI would have difficulties intentionally breaking someones spine. I'd probably choose to abandon the submission. But then again, I'm no fighter.", 
        "It's just a spine bro.", 
        "Yeah man, you don't even really need that shit, that's why God gave us two of 'em.", 
        "And that wasn't even during a match. She got a spinal injury from not tapping in *training*. ", 
        "No, she got an injury in an car accident or something. The twister thing was a joke", 
        "You got a source for that?", 
        "theres a story online about her nearly breaking her back in a car accident in 2012 but the only time that \"spinal splint\" photo surfaced was on the \"twister\" tweet - so take all of that with a grain of salt", 
        "A source for which? The car crash or the fact she was joking?\n\nThe former should be easy to google, as for the latter, well use your brain. This was [two days after the \"twister\" post](https://mobile.twitter.com/AngelaMagana1/status/661929927298564096/photo/1)", 
        "Wtf that happened? I can easily see how people wouldn't tap to chokes, I can kinda see how they wouldn't tap to joint locks in certain situations, but who the heck messes with a Twister? :O", 
        "That didn't actually happen", 
        "What do you mean that didn't happen? ", 
        "Yeah it never happened.\n\nShe was in a car accident a few years ago, I'd assume thats what the picture was from and she re-posted it last year with the *twister comment*. She was joking, but it was an epic backfire, as the world generally believed she could be that stupid.", 
        "Do you have a source for this? Youre the only one saying this and theres nothing else about it anywhere. \n\n\nSeems like you dont have any source and this is something you just assumed and now you're trying to pass it off as fact tbh. ", 
        "You got a source for the story he's refuting?", 
        "Google the car crash she was in. Have a look at her Twitter from the days after the \"twister\". She was in the gym.\n\nIf you want to believe that she broke her spine by refusing to tap, but was back in the gym in 48 hours. That's your call. ", 
        "Well there you go. Must of missed that somewhere.", 
        "It might sounds funny, but it's true. Kids are stupid parrots.", 
        "not just kids, Conor fans especially", 
        "Gotta keep them away from the Nashville brawl footage. \"These things happen in MMA kids.\"", 
        "I wouldn't say stupid, but maybe ignorant.", 
        "Then its a shame when such a popular role model like conor mcgregor teaches them things like it being ok to put others down for being less fortunate, and its cool drive around flashing guns out of car windows. Considering kids are stupid parrots and all.", 
        "MMA fighters, rappers, athelets, whatever it is; as much as parents and society want them to be role models, they fucking are not. it's a parents job, and a parents job alone to raise their children. \n\ndon't want your kids to grow up and be Kim K. or Jon Jones? teach them differently and help them find better role models.", 
        "God, you're lame.\n\nIt's a gimmick, a tongue-in-cheek persona used to sell fights. I hope for your sake you never watch pro-wrestling, you might have a stroke.", 
        "You expect dumb parrots to understand that? I'm just worried about the kids man.", 
        "you're such a pussy", 
        "thats sort of a mean thing to say", 
        ">God, you're lame.\n\nAsk me how I know you're 15 years old.", 
        "I'll bite. What do you think you know?", 
        "Conor isn't popular or a role model anymore.\n\nEl Tappo got stomped.", 
        "McGregor's never, to the best of my knowledge, said he was a good role model for kids. And while I find his gimmick obnoxious at times I can never bring myself to hate on a fighter for promoting themselves, including McGregor. \n\nMost fighters spend their entire adult lives involved in brutal training and diet regimens then risk their health stepping in a ring/octagon with an opponent who has been training professionally for most of their life for the primary purpose of causing physical harm. Then after a career spent like this a depressingly high proportion wind up broke and fighting past their prime, taking horrific damage to their health in the process, in order to make ends meet. Given that I can't really hold it against a fighter when they promote themselves to try and make all of their hard work stretch a little further and provide for their family in the future.", 
        "There is a right way to promote yourself and a wrong way.  Some people don't need the hype to sell fights, some need all the help they can get.  McGregor is just a shit talker who looks like a fool every time he opens his mouth.  I dont know everything he says in the media, but a lot that I read about or see on youtube, he just completely dog's his opponent and gives them no respect at all.  Look at GSP, did he talk mad shit about everyone as a champ?  Did Jose Aldo?  Anderson Silva?  \n\nMcGregor is like Rhonda in this regard, just having no filter at all and saying all kind of stupid crap.  The thing is McGregor is must better than Rhonda, so he will be able to back it up some, but if he moves to 155 I wonder how much shit he will still talk once he starts to get his ass whooped.  \n\nAlso do most of you UFC fans even believe half of the shit that McGregor or the rest of the fighters have to say about their opponent, in hyping up the fight as if they have this bad blood between them?  I watch most of the UFC fights, espeically the PPVs, but I hardly ever pay attention to the prefight banter between the fighters.  ", 
        "For the most part I take anything a fighter says in the build-up to a fight with a grain of salt. With MCGregor it's a mountain of salt with some pepper on top for good measure. Unfortunately a disturbingly high amount of people take his fight-selling bs seriously (and some feel obligate to parrot it themselves, which is annoying as fuck) but that's another matter. \n\nAlso regarding your point: \"Look at GSP, did he talk mad shit about everyone as a champ? Did Jose Aldo?\" \n\nNope, Aldo was a respectful and humble champion throughout his reign. And look where that got him: after 10 years of dominance in which he competed against and defeated an impressive list of great fighters McGregor probably made more money in the Aldo fight than Aldo had for every fight in his entire career up to that point. Aldo deserves more than that but unfortunately it's not about what you deserve it's about what you take.", 
        "Heh. You're calling his way the 'wrong' way even though he's probably the highest paid athlete on the entire UFC roster of over 500 people.\n\nHeh.", 
        "All based off hype.  ", 
        "If you value money that much, where do you stand when you take a step back and look at your own life?", 
        "The vast majority of people value money, most people value it a lot. Most fighters would love to get paid more. Many complain publicly that they are underpaid.\n\nFighters want to be all smiles and hand shakes and martial arts honor and aren't prepared to fake some animosity to make the event more exciting for specators. They want to live in a fantasy land where what THEY PREFER equals big pay cheques. But it's the other way.\n\nThankfully people like Sonnen, McGregor and Lesnar actually get the quiet guys paid way more because they can play the good guy to their heel. Getting paid way more while people look back at them as doing things the 'right way'. Lol.\n\nMost of the $$$ in the fight game comes from the storylines. Even in other sports it's way more interesting with storylines. That shit is human nature. If you can spin stories you can produce money out of thin air.", 
        "> McGregor's never, to the best of my knowledge, said he was a good role model for kids.\n\nI wasnt responding to Mcgregor, I was responding to the circle jerk going on in this thread pretending that Mcgregor did what he did to set an example for the kids (top comment). ", 
        "hahaha, it was 100% zero implied that he 'did it for the kids', you're just projecting or something.", 
        "100% zero implied? ", 
        "That isnt at all what top comment was saying. He said it's better for kids to see a star like McGregor tap so they know its alright to do so, and dont subsequently end up choking each other unconscious. At no point did he imply that that was the reasoning for Conor tap, or that it was Conors intention, just that it is a nice byproduct. ", 
        "which makes the pointing guns out of windows and bashing the poor a less than nice by product. Or wait, are we still only mentioning positive things about conor? my bad.", 
        "Those are undoubtedly bad things about Conor, no one is arguing that and just because the current topic is about one good byproduct doesnt mean people are ignoring his negative qualities/effects as you are insinuating. Not every conversation is going to be equal parts bad aspects and equal parts good aspects, thats just not how discussions work. ", 
        "10/10. Well said.", 
        "Just kids?  More like humans of all ages", 
        "Every time I've been choked out, it was never a fuck this, I'm going to sleep mentality. Its, \"ugh, got me. I think I can get ou.......zzzzzzzz\"", 
        "Especially UFC fans.", 
        "Haha summed up this entire thread!", 
        "That 40 year old McGregor wannabe comes to mind. Although maybe it wouldn't be so bad if he was getting choked unconscious every once in a while...\n\nEdit: Not Tom Lawlor. The dude at that press conference around 189 (I think?) with the sunglasses and v-neck down to his navel to show off his copycat tattoos.", 
        "I don't think Tom Lawlor is 40...", 
        "But why? Because he is impersonating somebody?", 
        "He doesn\u00b4t need any more brain damage..", 
        "CM Punk isn't yet 40.", 
        "How does this get upvoted? It doesn't even make sense.", 
        "Yeah you're right, still 3 years to go.", 
        "And he's gonna fight.....any day now, you'll see", 
        "oh god what happened to that dude? is he okay?", 
        "Saw him at UFC 196 lol\n\nGirl sitting next to me was talking about how she asked to get a picture with him, and the guy's girlfriend got all pissy.\n\nGuess McGregor impersonators are a hot commodity.", 
        "I guess the one thing sadder than that guy is being his girlfriend.", 
        "Same happened at 194, we talked to him briefly and he said that his girlfriend didn't allow him to take any more photos lol.", 
        "is there a pic of that guy's gf?", 
        "https://youtu.be/-iThNo4_JAU\n\nYou can see her next to him at the start of this video.\n\nI didn't think to take a picture, though. She's attractive.", 
        "He's also quite a good looking man except for the fact that he's impersonating somebody.", 
        "Does she try to look like Dee?\n\nIn other news, I might become this guy's impersonator and show up where he does.", 
        "Thanks for posting this.\n\nSome of you guys are asking why I would even address what appears to be a very obvious point. For us, the controversy of tapping isn't a controversy at all. It's pretty straightforward. But in the aftermath of UFC 196, McGregor's been battered by some while Holm praised for not tapping. I'd argue, to some extent, both that blame and praise is misplaced. \n\nIn any event, someone asked me about the debate over tapping (the question even turned green in the comments section), so I answered it. No more, no less.", 
        ">There's nothing wrong in saying: \"Ok, you got me. I've had enough. You win.\"\n\nBesides the whole quitting and losing part. \n\nThe fact that the world knows Holly Holm will never quit is something that should be celebrated, and it's a fact you apparently missed. ", 
        "> it's a fact you apparently missed.\n\n\"Fact\" \"Missed\"", 
        "> \"Fact\"\n\n\"...never quit is something that should be celebrated.\"\n\n>\"Missed\"\n\n\"praise is misplaced.\"", 
        "If this is a roundabout way of asking me to ignore anything else you have to say on the topic, you should've just started that way. But fair enough, mission accomplished.", 
        "Actually the \"mission\" of proving your ignorance was accomplished [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4aq3jn/luke_thomas_we_shouldnt_stigmatize_tapping_we/d13ropl) evidenced by your nonsensical reply.", 
        "Matt Serra public ally criticised him for tapping saying what's the worst that would happen? You go to sleep?\n\nWell apart from the fact we really don't know what the long term affects are (not as bad as concussions I'm sure but probably not harmless either), I would have thought a black belt would understand the difference between a perfect RnC and what Diaz had which where the forearm was crushing the windpipe.", 
        "Great hair, btw.", 
        "I find it particularly funny in this case because Conor said \"I'm willing to die in there..they are not\" and, as submissions go, a choke is one the of few that could actually kill you. And he tapped to it, haha.\n\nI love the Live Chat, by the way. Or Chat Wrap. I don't even know what's it's called, but I like it. So, thanks.", 
        "There's a difference between being willing to die, and letting yourself be killed when you are left with no option of winning. It's not like he could possibly escape that choke, it wasn't Shamrock choking him.\n\nThat said it's Conor, the dude is a millionaire primarily because of the ridiculous shit he says.", 
        "Your response seems serious to me. I was speaking mostly in jest. Sorry if I was unclear before.\nI do think Conor was just being hyperbolic, and I sincerely hope no one dies in the Octagon.\n", 
        "No I knew you were, I was kinda trying to be a little sarcastic too. Shit's hard on the internet.", 
        "I know you get frustrated when couch potatoes call McGregor's tap a pussy move, but you always get those. Reality is not so black and white and I think it's naive to get sucked into that debate. I  only criticize the notion that \"we should praise\" ones that tap. I think that's an overreaction to a polarized argument.\n\nSome fighters get through submissions. Some fighters won't snap the arm. I think it was GSP vs. Hardy, it looked like GSP had an armbar but just let go since Hardy wasn't tapping. Enson Inoue criticized fighters who were conditioned to tap early as you can clearly see that free hand lingering around the tap area early as they're already inside their own heads, defeated, thinking about tapping instead of looking their way out. I've never seen a fight where that lingering hand hasn't tapped. Makwan Amirkhani ran into several chokes against Mike Wilkinson but did not accept the situation and somehow got out. One could argue a fighter who starts thinking \"is this it?\" may stop breathing, moving or allow his opponent transition into even better position, since they're not in the fight anymore. That said, Nate's RNC seemed to be so deep that tapping was just wise for Conor.", 
        "GSP also had a kimura on Hardy....That shit was nasty!\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3w4Ii_r7Fxs\n\n", 
        "> \"I'm willing to die in there..they are not\" and, as submissions go, a choke is one the of few that could actually kill you.\n\nwell, irl yea but not in a fight, other than a fluke thing. the ref will stop it way before unless someone has a stroke or something, which due to head injury in a fight I guess could be a heightened risk in that moment vs just pure grappling. \n\n I think something like the neck crank maia did to story is probably way worse\nhttp://www.ufc.com/media/SOTW-Maia-Story-UFC-153?id=\n\nor even a twister.\n\nI'm not saying maia was strong enough to actually break his neck but it sure looked like it and story cleary tapped because he felt like his neck was gonna break, he wasn't choking at all.", 
        "Oh, the ref will stop the fight before McGregor died from the choke? I didn't know that. I thought ultimate fighting fights were to the death. Well, that explains why I didn't see any death's during UFC 196. I'll never by  another pay-per-view. ", 
        "What about tapping to strikes? ", 
        "Late to the party response (and it's a damn shame a topic like this doesn't get ita own post) but here's my two cents:\n\nFighters want to survive more than anything. With a submission, RNC for example, a fighter only taps when they know there's nothing they can do to escape. When it comes to strikes, they just want to get the end of the round. The other guy is still working. If the last shot didn't do me in, I still have a chance ro survive here. They see something like weidman/rockhold and despite his loss a few minutes later, if he'd tapped that's a big what if. ", 
        "As long as you can still grab breath, you fight! ~ Leo", 
        "The thing i would want to see more is corner stoppages. It never happens. Take the onus off the fighter and let the fighter save face. ", 
        "Yeah, in all the years I can only remember a few. ", 
        "*sees right hook coming* \n\n*taps on opponent's arm*", 
        "Lol ", 
        "Man, I remember the shit storm when GSP tapped to strikes.  I hate people sometimes.", 
        "Everyone should have a towel man like BJ Penn. ", 
        "Towel man and hype man should be the cornerstones to every camp. ", 
        "Hell yes you should tap, brain injury is no joke and if anything tapping to strikes to save your brain is far more important than saving your limb or saving yourself from going out for a couple seconds.  If you're stuck in a position where your opponent has control over you, you can't escape and you can't stop him from hitting your head then you should tap instead of waiting to get rescued by the ref or get KO'd and concussed.  If you're experienced enough to be in the cage, you should be experienced enough to know when you've lost unless you're already on queer street as it is anyway.", 
        "I agree. ", 
        "Same concept but frowned upon for some reason. Because getting KO'd is better miright?", 
        "I feel like getting choked unconscious is probably better for your brain than getting knocked unconscious by strikes yet for some reason fighters are seen as cowards when they tap to strikes but tapping to a choke is generally not a big deal. ", 
        "I'm not sure actually but my guess is yes given that the choke is usually immediately released there is no lasting damage where each punch you take causes damage to your brain. I don't know I really hate the attitude of \"if you tap to strikes you're a pussy\". It's bullshit.", 
        "It is way better for your brain. I don't think we need to pull out the science books for this one.", 
        "Eh - debatable to make that claim. If you hold a choke long enough serious brain damage can occur. I dont know what the science is on quick released choke outs nor do I claim to know.", 
        "Long enough like you aren't being watch by a ref you mean? \n", 
        "Yep - my point was we know holding a choke past a certain point causes permanent damage, I have not personally read anything on short term choke outs so I can't say definitively it doesn't cause damage. Thats all.", 
        "Shogun =(", 
        "?", 
        "He tapped to jon jones on strikes just as the fight was called", 
        "I knew that. I don't understand the \"=(\" emoji. What is the reason you're sad about? That he tapped or what?", 
        "Because shogun rua......", 
        "rip\n\n", 
        ":(", 
        ")=", 
        "Did you even watch the video? He said GSP might be the goat and still tapped to strikes in Serra fight.", 
        "Did he really? It just looked like he was flailing trying to avoid the onslaught, but I guess I'll have to look at it again", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Next time find a video where you can actually see wtf is going on. This isn't \"all of a sudden\", it happened almost nine years ago, and it's been a fact ever since.", 
        "he said it in a recent interview as well", 
        "Yes I did. I just don't think most fans feel that way. ", 
        "MMA fans can be subdivided broadly into two categories: fans of the \"sport\" aspect and fans of the \"spectacle\". \n\nIf I was going to paint these groups with broad strokes, I would say that the latter loves the violence, the injury, the shit-talking, the blood, the drama. They are fans of the \"big names\" like Lesnar or Rousey or McGregor or Jones. They like \"phenoms\" because they like to pretend that they are badass like them. They boo the ground game, cheer stand-ups, and throw the word \"pussy\" around despite never experiencing getting punched or submitted. They watch MMA like NASCAR - hoping for a crash. \n\nThe former love the martial arts, respect, and competition of MMA. They hope both fighters exit without serious long-term injury. They love respectful athletes who have mastered their art like Holm or Maia or DC or MightyMouse. They love ground fighting, hate early stand-ups, and believe that anyone with the guts to fight in a cage is not worthy of the title \"pussy\" no matter how badly they break during the fight. They love when the two men embrace as brothers at the end of a long battle. \n\nThe problem is that the PPV buy-rates artificially boosts the WWE-style fan as the most valuable commodity. The sport-style fan is going to watch no matter how much drama is attached to the fight, but the WWE fan is only interested if a McGregor is attached. Thus, the McGregors eclipse the MightyMouses in terms of stardom and drawing power. \n\nTherefore, catering to the knuckle-head \"tapping to strikes is for pussies\" fan's opinion is over-valued and the fighters' long-term safety is undervalued. \n\nI would love if a more cerebral camp would have the courage to adopt a towel-throwing culture and would stand up for their fighters' safety against a company that values the dollars of man-children over the safety of their employees. ", 
        "I'd argue BJ quitting on the stool is equivalent, and I'm fine with both.", 
        "Not equivalent at all.", 
        "It's interesting that two of the greatest of all time actually did what Luke is praising. Two of the toughest smartest bravest competitors were smart enough NOT to 'black out before i tap out bro'", 
        "BJ will never own up to it though. Way too much bravado and shit talking.", 
        "Chris Leben also quit against Uriah Hall and Trevor Wittman stopped the fight for Nate Marquardt against Kelvin Gastelum. ", 
        "There needs to be MORE tapping to strikes in MMA. It's fucking brutal right now.", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "As long as you can still grab breath, you fight! ~Leo\n\nHonestly, if you want a feminine sport MMA isn't for you. The logical conclusion of your safety reasoning is two grown men shouldn't punch and kick each other in the head. I'm not saying MMA isn't brutal, and I'm not saying the whole exercise isn't unethical but we love it because it speaks to our primal warrior instinct. If you're going to use this reasoning don't be a hypocrite, stop giving your discretionary income to a brutal sport. \n\nEdit: Downvotes with no argument? Seriously, just because I'm calling you liberal bro, hipster, yuppie cunts on your shit? I'm open to changing my mind if you give me arguments, but downvotes for being your reality check.", 
        "Yeah but mma is safer than boxing.\n\n/s", 
        "This. It's tapping to strikes that needs to be much more acceptable. Undefended strikes to the head are what cause really long lasting damage. Tapping or corner's throwing in the towel when you aren't able to defend these strikes need to be encouraged.\n\n\"Just Bleed\" translates into \"Just Brain Damage\" \n\nI'm all for guys proving they are warriors but this needs to change. ", 
        "Yep Weidman should of tapped when Rockhold was in full mount beating the fuck out of him, with like 30 secs left before the round ended.  \n", 
        "I think there needs to be more ref call on clearly concussed fighters. Taps to a gnarly charlie horse or something though, nah. That's just something you tough out.", 
        "Not if the ref does his job right. ", 
        "Yeah, who knows.  Maybe we'll even start seeing corners throw in their towels too!", 
        "I'm in complete agreement, and the worst part is that that ship has sailed. Unless there's a dramatic shift in the attitude of your average fight fan, tapping to strikes is never going to be accepted, and it's going to get you ridiculed no matter the situation. It's stupid as fuck, but nothing can really be done about it.", 
        "That's kind of my point. Seems like the same people that say it's stupid to not tap from a choke would be the first people calling somebody a pussy for tapping to strikes. ", 
        "Those are the same internet tough guys that have never been punched in the face by a world class athlete", 
        "[Yup](http://i.imgur.com/VkWFgca.jpg)", 
        "Exactly, it's barbaric in a way that is off-putting. You are literally putting yourself through unnecessary damage for your equally archaic peers not to look down on you. When these guys drop to their knees and turtle up...they are out. Why take the additional beating and force the ref to make a judgement call?\n\nPride comes before the fall as they say. It's silly and unnecessary. Remember when Makdessi tapped out due to a head kick from Cerrone? Smart man. And no pussy.", 
        "> Pride comes before the fall as they say.\n\nIt's \"pride *goes* before the fall.\"", 
        "How would you feel about a rule saying that a turtle defense is akin to a verbal submission ie. like when a guy screams while in an armbar?", 
        "Depends on the situation. When grappling turtle is a good defence against somebody passing guard which you can quickly transition to reguarding if you are good at that position.\n\nBut turtling up after standing strikes. That seems like a decent equivalent of a tap. I like that idea.", 
        "Nick Diaz would have lost every single fight he was in if that was the case.", 
        "It basically already is unless your Chris Weidman or something. \n\nIf you get into that position while getting beat on, the ref will basically have his hands halfway in the air ready to call it, unless of course it's Yves Lavignes. ", 
        "Or Herb Dean. Or Marc Goddard.", 
        "That might be a bit extreme. I don't really think the rules need to change, I think fighter mentality needs to change. If you are taking too much damage and don't know where you are - tap! There's no shame. The sport needs to get over it's blood-thirst. And whatever douchebag fans think these fighters have no heart, they are the pits of the world anyways so who gives a damn.", 
        "This is actually how herb dean decides to call fights. If a fighter turns away from the opponent while getting blasted he steps in ie mcgregor mendes. But if a fighter is just taking the punches ie rockhold weidman, he lets the fight go as long as the fighter is still conscious and working. I disagree with the rockhold weidman example but thats how herb described his reffing in that fight. ", 
        "I'd feel like it was dumb rule. Effective offense and reversals can be mounted from turtle position, to a much greater degree than a fully locked arm bar or choke.", 
        "Turtle is an awful spot but it is far from a hopeless position.  ", 
        "Nice try, Eduardo Telles. ", 
        "I'm just a casual MMA fan, so this might not come as a surprise, but I watched the Lawler fight, and it seriously made me uncomfortable.", 
        "You and me both, brother. I watched the highlights straight through, just once. Don't think I'll do it again.", 
        "I agree. ", 
        "I think, as a fighter, it's dangerous to tap to strikes. I think this because, with many things, once you so it a single time it becomes easier to do it again. Tapping to strikes is different than tapping to submissions, in my opinion, because there is not the same sort of inevitability with strikes.  When striking, there tends to be free movement in open space, more chance to regroup and mount an comeback. Just one man's opinion.", 
        "But it would be nice if you are not braindamaged when you u retire?", 
        "Of course. I agree completely. If I'm being totally honest, I think 'professional fighter' is a terrible occupation. Too much effort for too little pay off. Too much danger for too little stability. \nI'm thankful that people do it, it entertains me. But I do not think it's a good decision fight for a living.", 
        "Completely agree. Not to mention, how many exchanges have you had where you and the other guy both end up rocked a bit? Even if you know you're in rough shape, you aren't going to tap if you think the other guy is about as bad off as you are. \n\nIf you're on the floor in a Ground N Pound situation then yeah, tap out, but if you're still up on your feet it's a lot harder to assess accurately how well you're doing if the match is close.", 
        "Also, you are generally defending to the end. Not saying it wouldn't take much to tap to strikes, but as soon as you put that hand to the mat, you better believe that other fighter will be looking to pounce on that missing hand. That is, if he isn't being cognizant of the fighter trying to tap.", 
        "Yes, obviously you would verbal tap not tap with your hand.", 
        "If someone's getting beat on, there's a lot of emotions that come with that, especially in front of all those people and (sometimes) with a title on the line.  If they knew they were close to done, there's still a chance maybe they can slip out of it.  If they're really rocked, I don't think much is going through their head in the first place.  I don't think it's so much \"I don't want to look like a pussy\", so much as it is \"how fucked am I, really?\".\n\nSource: armchair psychology", 
        "I wonder if they have the state of mind to tap. I've had the wind knocked out of me and all I could think about was trying to breathe. Compound that with trying to cover up with your hands I can see why one might not tap to strikes readily.", 
        "I never could. \n\nIt wasn't pride, or stubbornness, or anything. \n\nWhen I was up on my feet, doing well, I could strategize, plan, think out what I wanted to do. \n\nYou get rocked substantially and your brain isn't working like you're used to. Take a solid ringer on the jaw, or get half-submitted in a RNC and you don't ***think*** anymore. \n\nYou either get tunnel-vision (first case) or you lose vision completely (second case) and you can feel stuff and hear your heartbeat in your ears like a deep bass drum out in the jungle somewhere in the middle of the night. \n\nThe only shit you think in that moment is survival. \n\nIf you train yourself appropriately, maybe in the moment it occurs to you to tap, but I can tell you that every time I got there I wasn't thinking that tapping would end the fight, I was thinking that I had to do whatever it took to get out of that situation, like a rat that chews its own leg off to get out of a trap. Choked a guy out who had me in a solid RNC by using a semi-inverted muay thai clinch to choke him against/over my right shoulder. \n\nI dunno how the fuck it happened. I remember vaguely when he first got my back I had stood up and tried to get him up and over the top of me by bending over quickly/forcefully, and it shifted him up a bit, but that was all it did. I went down afterward, and after going into the jungle for however long I was there, I reached back up over me, grasped my hands behind the base of his head, and just started yanking down on his head as hard as I could. \n\nWhen *he* tapped, I didn't even know what was happening. Someone else had to break up the fight.\n\nIf we are going to start seeing more tapping, it has to start with training and sparring. Absolutely has to. When you really *need* to tap, it all comes from muscle memory. There's no thinking or choosing, your body just does whatever shit you've programmed it to. For me and the RNC above, I'd been working on Muay Thai for a few months and some-fucking-how, it worked, but it's just as likely that it wouldn't have and I'd have lost a few thousand brain cells. Shit, I probably lost plenty as it is.", 
        "> Choked a guy out who had me in a solid RNC by using a semi-inverted muay thai clinch to choke him against/over my right shoulder.\n\nHaha, that guy must have died from embarrassment, his friends probably never let him live it down or never mention it for fear he gives up on life", 
        "I dunno, he handled it really well in my opinion. I had to ask him what the hell happened and how I won, haha. Basically, he told me that just trying to get my back he'd gassed himself, and the way I had him was crushing his windpipe so it was either tap before he actually gets injured, or see if he could summon the energy to finish me off, and by that point he didn't think he had it.\n\n\nWe used to spar a lot, and he got me with plenty of other successful RNCs and a couple of arm-bars, so he didn't have to prove himself or anything. I used to give him shit about it now and then, but it hasn't come up in ages. I actually still talk to the guy; known him almost 2 decades now.", 
        "I honestly would be surprised if tapping wasn't the first thing on their mind.", 
        "When you are in that position, you don't \"think\" anymore. \n\nImagine how your brain works when you are *extremely* drunk or fucked up on some kind of impairing substance. It's kind of like that. you only think about tapping if you've specifically trained to consider it an option.", 
        "I probably should have specified, I've been in that position and I know giving up to make it stop is all I wanted to do. Pride is what stopped me, not forgetting that I could tap.", 
        "Different strokes, I guess. \n\nFor me, I only ever really thought about tapping at all if I was in some kind of BJJ hold and figured I'd have a serious injury if I didn't tap (arm-bar, for example).\n\nExchanging punches, or even if I'm on the receiving end of ground and pound, tapping didn't come to mind at all. Pride was never the problem, it just wasn't one of the things that I considered when weighing my options. \n\nI guess it sounds pretty stupid to say I forgot I could tap, but really I guess that what it came down to. ", 
        "You'd be surprised. Just keeping your guard up is usually the most important thing on your mind at that moment.", 
        "I think I'd honestly be scared to move my hands from anywhere that isn't protecting my face.", 
        "You can still just say \"tap tap tap\", or \"stop\", or scream.", 
        "Never knew this, makes sense. ", 
        "I want to see a male fighter scream like a banshee to stop a fight now. ", 
        "Well, we used to see it occasionally. Now it's pretty unheard of at the top level.", 
        "Bob Sapp was the king of tapping out from strikes.", 
        "It was pretty common in the first few UFC tournaments. I even saw a guy tap out because Tank Abbott was squashing his head. Like, just leaning on it, squishing it into the fence.", 
        "You have a link to this?", 
        "No, sorry. I watched it on fight pass and can't find it on YouTube. It was when he fought Steve Jennum in the Ultimate Ultimate.", 
        "Remembering that video made me start tapping on my desk. ", 
        "I'd prefer to see more Towel throwing.", 
        "Agree with this. Wish JDS had a team who would have done that vs Cain. His career was essentially ended in those 2 last Cain fights, just too much damage.", 
        "BJ Penns brother was a fucking saint.", 
        "This. You can't leave it up to a guy, who probably wont remember the strikes that are hitting him, to tap out to strikes. \n\nedit: I'm pretty sure the act of throwing in the towel is illegal in MMA, and as such it is treated differently in the rulebook since it's technically a disqualification to do that, and must affect the way the commission treats the decision, through all their bureaucratic bullshit. ", 
        "You can \"throw in the towel\" in all states and it will count as a corner stoppage, but in Nevada you can't literally use a towel, you have to do it verbally and speak to a commission member.", 
        "It's illegal in boxing too, that's why it stops the fight.\n\nBoxing and MMA are overseen by the same commission.", 
        "that's being generous. some boxing and the UFC are overseen by the same commissions but we could have a company in an indian casino, with no one watching shit. I'd just like to see the corner being more responsible for their fighters in some way. Doesn't have to literally be throwing in the towel, but that seems like one of the easiest ways to signal a stoppage from a corner. ", 
        "I agree, but \"throwing in the towel\" in a lot of states is somewhat convoluted.  In places like Nevada, corners have to signal the ringside commission inspector who then has to signal the ref who stops the fight.  It can be confusing and makes it harder for corners to stop fights in a culture that already stigmatizes it.  In fact, you can still get fined for throwing in the towel in places like Nevada (not surprising, though. . .)", 
        "I feel towels wont travel far enough to reach inside the cage. What about buckets? Every cornerman seems to have them. It could be a thing just for MMA. Let boxing have towels.", 
        "How about a button they can press this is not 1958 ffs", 
        "Get a grip of yourself. It was only a joke.", 
        "Use folding chairs.  Like when they stopped that Straight Dave mma match.", 
        "What about ice spills to stopp matches?", 
        "Towel throw  - Josh Thomson vs Nate Diaz (34 second mark)\r\nhttp://youtu.be/pCtHra_cZKM", 
        "This is the main problem with throwing in the towel. The refs are rarely in a position to see it. ", 
        "Like throw the bucket in the cage and then their fighter had to kick it? ", 
        "\"You ain't stopping nothin'... You ain't stopping nothin'...\"\n\nRIP Apollo Creed", 
        "RIP\n\nBut it did end up making for a hell of a sequel, Creed was a damn good movie.", 
        "That's all the endorsement I need. My lady is working late. I'm renting Creed tonight. ", 
        "Hope you enjoy it!", 
        "I can't believe you waited this long!", 
        "No matter what.\n\n~looks to wife and gives her a reassuring gesture~", 
        "No one actually cares that Conor tapped. They're just making fun of him and his sheepish fans who spew hot garbage.", 
        "Whilst this is true, a lot of people were (justifiably) stigmatizing Conor's tap because he had talked so much about how he would never tap to a choke, he'd rather die in the octagon than tap to another man, shit like that. Obviously he was just running his mouth and talking shit but if you're going to do that then perhaps you deserve to feel your own hypocrisy when it backfires.", 
        "People didn't seem worried about stigmatizing tapping out when McGregor was running around saying he would die before tapping out again. \n\nThis chastisement by the media only after a popular fighter loses is getting pretty lame.", 
        "another important stigma in martial arts is the importance humility, respecting your opponent etc.", 
        "I only give Conor shit because he said 'Im willing to die in there..they are not.'", 
        "It's especially funny because as submissions go, a choke is one the of few that could actually kill you. Haha, and he tapped to it. ", 
        "so so so this.  \n\nTapping to a choke?  If it was an armbar or heel hook Id give him the insta pass but you cant talk that shit and tap to a choke.   Specially right after the female champ went out on her shield the fight before.   I personally lost a ton of respect for him there and its going to be harder for me to enjoy his banter now.\n\nTalkin the talk is only cool when ya walk the walk.  ", 
        "Cormier said something similar but seemed even more serious", 
        "It's called hype.\n\nGetting choked out proves nothing, the only way you escape an rnc like that is if the opponent lets go.  You're done, you tap.", 
        "Would you have given Conor shit if he had won and not eaten Nate's carcass?", 
        "he does tend to spew hyperbolic bullshit.", 
        "Which when we look back will realize that was all he ever was. I like his fighting style but i will never accept his kind of behavior and attitude in any sport. I dislike the Diaz bros for the same reason but glad Nate got his day in the sun after putting so much into the sport with not much return", 
        "Yeah, its like people are mad at him for having a persona. ", 
        "That aspect of his 'persona' is stupid and people are within their right to judge him for it.", 
        "He himself repeatedly states he doesn't act out any persona though, he even got slightly upset at a journalist during the aldo conference call for stating otherwise.", 
        "Right, I dont mean to imply thats not really what hes like, but still I don't hold it against him. It's not like he's Jon Jonesing it up, he's just kind of acting like every Irish stereotype for shit talking. ", 
        "Can't expose the business.", 
        "I mean technically he did fight to the simulated death. To me, tapping is saying \"okay checkmate, if this were to the death you would have killed me\" there's no need to actually wait to get choked out. Conor knew the choke was in deep and he tapped. To me, that takes more guts than being stubborn and saying \"fuck tapping, I'll just go out\" ", 
        "Okay but no it doesn't take more guts to not tap then it does to tap. That's just nonsensical. I'm not saying it's wise to sit in a submission but if you're going to compare who showed more guts, Holly or Conor then Holly obviously did.", 
        "Is being stubborn and refusing to admit defeat even when defeat is obvious considered gutsy these days? I was always taught that taking your lumps like a man (no disrespect Holly) was the high road. Admitting defeat is a sign of maturity, not cowardice. Sure the shit he said beforehand was wack, but thats not what a lot of people are arguing. They're saying Conor is a pussy for tapping and Holly is badass for not, and that's just childish and absurd. ", 
        "I'm not saying anything of the sort. I'm just saying there is no way it is somehow MORE gutsy to submit then it is to fight until you are physically incapacitated. \n\nConor talked a lot of shit, said a lot of dumb things about people who take the easy way out and how he was willing to die for this and nobody else was. He dug his own grave here, let's let him lie in it. ", 
        "Well in this case pretty much everybody fights to the simulated death, and him saying 'Im willing to die in there..they are not' doesn't mean anything anymore.", 
        "Makes money. Why not.", 
        "I fail to see how claiming to singlehandedly be the top 9 p4p fighters in the world is hyperbolic.", 
        "Yeah what does that have to do with lying in an oxygen chamber?", 
        "Since when is tapping stigmatised? Wth do you prove by snapping your shit up?", 
        "Urijah Faber and Paige VanZant both talk about it a lot as if tapping makes you a pussy.", 
        "Agreed, only shows an ignorant sense of pride", 
        "The problem is that Conor himself was making fun of fighters who taps to easily and far worse. And its one thing to tap out to an arm bar or a knee bar than what Conor did, which was tapping out instantly to and RNC. He basically did all the things he was bashing all other fighter for doing, \"they get hit , they become panic wrestlers\" / \"they look for the easy way out when adversity comes\" Hate when people simplify things to make a shitty point. ", 
        ">diversity\n\nadversity? ", 
        "An old wooden ship from the civil war era?", 
        "Hehe yea that's what I meant to say. Cheers ", 
        "Nobody that has any clue about MMA thinks not tapping is \"brave\". ", 
        "So you're saying like 70% of this sub doesn't have a clue", 
        "Even the whitest of white belts learns that tapping is part of the deal really, really early. How else you gonna learn? \"Hey, he got me there. Let's go again so I can see how to prevent that...\"\n\nProblem: a lot of the folks watching aren't even white belts.", 
        "Matt Serra would like a word with you.", 
        "Every time I see a decent kamura I'm yelling \"tap\" before I start getting Big Nog flashbacks.", 
        "Not tapping to strikes is brave. Tapping to a submission is whatever. A fully locked-in submission ends the fight with or without a tap. I don't see bravery or cowardice in tapping to a submission, because you can't \"fight through it\". To me, bravery is about struggling against odds, but when a submission is fully locked and properly applied it can't even be struggled against in any but the most exceptional cases.", 
        "I half agree. I think Weidman could have tapped when he was getting his brains smashed in by Rockhold and I totally wouldn't have blamed him. So yeah I definitely agree with you there. He really had no quit in him and had every intention of coming out and still trying to defend his belt in the next round. Nogeuira not tapping and having his arm snapped by Mir was just stubborn. Tapping to a choke is kind of a grey area. I'm definitely not a fighter but I think I wouldn't tap to a choke because failing to escape just means you go unconscious. But at least I don't have a broken or dislocated bone. Also it's a bummer seeing someone tap to a choke when they didn't realise there was only 5 seconds left in a round. It doesn't happen often but I'd hate to be that guy.  \n\nEither way I don't think there is a tapping controversy or issue that needs to be addressed. It's up to the fighter. I just don't like the segment trying to tell us what's right in this regard.", 
        "Nice reply.\nI don't mind the article \"trying to tell us what's right in this regard\" because it was well spoken and seemed like a sensible presentation. I may or may not agree, but I thought Luke presented his side of the argument well.", 
        "To be fair I have never met anyone like you in my daily life. Most of the \"MMA fans\" that I actually meet are nothing like the folks in this sub, they're young dumb and almost always male. Very few of them could tell you who will be on the next fight card and even fewer can tell you what the fight number is (example: UFC 197). \n\nAll they care about is two guys getting in the octagon and beating the living shit out of each other. Many of them don't even like it or enjoy it, they just hang out with their friends and watch the fights because it's brutal and violent and macho. They wear Tapout appeal so people *know* they watch MMA and they're *not* to be fucked with, because if someone watches MMA that means they could totally kick your ass. \n\n\"Alpha\" males and MMA is like Cowboys and Rodeo, it's a way to socialize and interact with men like you or at least men you want to be like, and makes you seem like a badass. I learned that when a coworker came in wearing a Tapout shirt, and at our lunch break I decided to shoot the shit and talk about the next fight (at the time it was Rockhold vs Weidman), dude had no clue who they were but he knew plenty about Chuck Liddell -except that he had retired. I asked him why he wore the shirt if he didn't pay attention to MMA, he tried to play it off like he knew that he had retired and he was just a fan back when he was fighting and I asked him when that was and he just said, \"oh a while back.\"\n\nThe target audience and the *real fans* are two completely separate groups, and the target audience would get pissed if they were watching a fight and the fighter tapped to strikes. It's a shame, but they don't appreciate the beauty of Mixed Martial Arts, they only care about the brutality and blood shed.\n\nEdit: I suppose all I did was repeat what you said but in a longer more contrived way, but what I'm saying is that it's the target audience and the revenue/popularity that they bring to the sport that discourages tapping out.", 
        "Go learn about Enson Inoue. That man has balls of steel.", 
        "And brains of mashed potato. Enson was definitely fearless, but the Vovchanchyn fight alone probably took 5 years off his life.", 
        "Yes, that guy who sacked up and helped people in Japan whose lives were devastated by the massive earthquake has mashed potatoes for brains. I'm glad such a high-level fighter such as yourself can take time out of training to insult a legend.", 
        "His pride caused him to take unnecessary damage over and over during his career. Guaranteeing oneself certain brain damage strictly for one's own pride is dumb, and getting one's brains bashed in repeatedly will have an affect. His philanthropic work doesn't change the fact that he fought stupidly, and your \"you can't judge a fighter because you're not one\" straw man is about as stupid as Inoue's \"I'd literally rather die in the ring than tap\" bravado.", 
        "You don't know what a strawman is apparently. And it's funny that the only people who believe that \"someone's opinion isn't more valid because they fought\" crap are people who are not involved with the actual sport, but armchair critics. It was because of his ferocity in the ring that he accrued the means to help people. He lived and fought the way he wanted to, without worrying if it looked stupid to some almighty internet commenter. It's rather ignorant to think that you have any right to judge him or the decisions he made in the middle of a fight.", 
        "You're complaining about \"armchair critics\" while you yourself...are an armchair critic! You aren't some high level fighter, so by your own standards, your opinion is worthless.  It's rather ignorant of you to think you have the right to judge him so positively considering you, by your own argument, literally know nothing of the matter.", 
        "That's cute.", 
        "Igor took 5 years with every punch", 
        "I agree and disagree - it comes down to how you sell yourself. Once you position yourself as the guy who will \"die in the octagon\" and \"decapitate\" your opponents, that ship has sailed.\n\nFor every \"humble\" fighter out there - tap, by any means. For Conor and every other fighter out there who bites off more than they can chew - tapping out actually DOES look bad. ", 
        "He could have fought it out standing, but turned into a panic wrestler. He could have tried escaping, but gave up his back after eating gnp.  He tapped to a rnc after saying he was willing to die in the octagon. All while talking massive amounts of shit to his fellow fighters and calling himself a god. I mean, if somebody made their bed it's Conor. Don't talk shit if you can't handle the backlash", 
        "what?", 
        "I'm sure he's crying himself to sleep in his bed of cash thinking about how people have these opinions of him.", 
        "if you don't think it bothers him then you haven't been paying attention. dude is proud and considers himself cut from the pure warrior cloth. \n\nThere isn't a chance in hell that it hasn't rented major real estate in his head: got out stuck on the feet, rocked, out grappled and forced to tap.\n\nedit:..... he also said it himself that it bothers him badly.", 
        "> if you don't think it bothers him then you haven't been paying attention\n\nLove it when internet strangers tell you what you have or haven't been doing.  Anyways, I'm referring to him caring about the scrots online who have been giving him shit for things like tapping.  These people are clearly people who know fuck all about mma or what it's like to be in that position.", 
        "I don't think the implication is that anybody actually thinks the internet backlash is making Conor sad. What's annoying is a blogger trying to strike when the iron is hot and earn social justice brownie points by telling us how to act and saying \"Don't mock Conor, guys. There's nothing wrong with tapping\". It's like \"Bitch we know! But half of us were watching to see him lose!\". Not everybody is trying to be righteous when watching a cage fight and that's OK. ", 
        "> What's annoying is a blogger trying to strike when the iron is hot and earn social justice brownie points by telling us how to act and saying \"Don't mock Conor, guys.\n\nGood thing you didn't watch the video or you'd realise Luke Thomas never said anything of the sort and is much more than some random blogger.\n\n", 
        "Haha love it", 
        "To be fair, I think he'd be shat on whether he tapped or went to sleep. He's a polarizing figure, so whether he got submitted or knocked out or got outpointed, he's going to get it all the same from those who are rooting against him.", 
        "Thank you. I hate that the shit we call MMA journalism is now trying to push this as the hot button current opinion piece. It has waaaay more to do with all the shit talk Conor was doing blowing up in his face. We're talking about goddamn CAGE FIGHTERS. They'll decide if they want to tap to chokes or not. I don't want to paint all our favorite fighters as big alpha brutes, but when it comes to whether or not to tap, in the moment they do not give a fuck about what journalists and keyboard warriors outside that cage think.\n\nAnd yes people are allowed to spit vitriol back at Conor. His ratings were huge because half of the viewership was watching hoping to see him get his ass kicked. People want to see the guy who runs his mouth get handled. Stop trying to tell people its wrong for social brownie points. He knows it, Dana knew it, we knew it. And if we see him submit the haters will relish it. It's not like people were calling everyone who tapped before him a pussy. \n\nFucking sick of bloggers trying to tell everybody the right way to think.", 
        "*cough Conor *cough\n\n", 
        "I always remember that [Aoki fight](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ot7XK_C3uWQ#t=2m53s) where the other guy doesn't tap, his arm breaks, and Aoki flips him off afterwards.\n\nI saw this fight before I practiced BJJ so I thought he was just being an asshole (I mean, he's still kind of an asshole), now I see his opponent as being a stupid dick who had every opportunity to tap and didn't. Now his arm is broken and he can't train for months. Not tapping is just plain stupid, not brave in the least.", 
        "There was a funny cracked article relating to this\n\nhttp://www.cracked.com/blog/the-6-least-sportsmanlike-moments-in-mma_p2/", 
        "I always think of [this moment](https://youtu.be/899lucj3KvE?t=2m36s). The look saku gives through the ropes, royler was clearly fucked and refusing to tap as well.\n\nof course, then saku later also broke Renzo elbow but with a kimura from a back take reversal, which was [awesome.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CUeiuHxu9RE), renzos arm was clearly broken to shit and he also didnt tap.", 
        "Fucking Gracies and this stupid macho bullshit, it's so tired. Royler even has the nerve to argue with the ref for stopping the fight even though he didn't tap. SORRY FOR TRYING TO SAVE YOUR CAREER YOU STUPID FUCK. Saku should have ripped it just to teach him a lesson. Getting your arm broken and saying \"he didn't beat me, I didn't tap\" is like the definition of a pyrrhic victory. ", 
        "Honestly, I love Renzo, i think he is the coolest one of the \"classic\" gracies but I really don't know what he thought he was going to do in that position lol. I guess the cool thing is it didn't matter how much more saku cranked it since it was already broken in half lol", 
        "Eesh. I don't think I could ever fully commit to breaking someone's arm like that", 
        "Haha yeah. Now you think \"Man if one of my training partners willingly let me break their arm instead of tapping I'd be flipping them off and swearing too\" and it's totally true. You'd be pissed as fuck if one of your boys let you break their arm. ", 
        "There is one insufferable kid in my gym that fucking refuses to tap to anything. It's so annoying to get a fully locked out armbar, the dummy won't tap, and I'm forced to give it up or destroy his arm. Then he feels like a badass for \"escaping a locked in armbar\".\n\nGets on my nerves.", 
        "Honestly I would bring that up with your instructor. As tempting as it would be to actually break the guys arm, you're gonna feel like shit afterwards. Better that he gets chewed out for being a retard than actually have his arm break (he'd definitely learn his lesson that way though)", 
        "Get a kimura. IMO more painful than an armbar. And a tougher escape once their arm is behind their back.", 
        "I think you know what you need to do...\n", 
        "I agree. He will not learn otherwise", 
        "I would be lying if I said I don't consider it every single time.\n\nBut I just look at it as an opportunity to sub him twice", 
        "Just stop rolling for joint locks and leave him unconscious on the mats for your coach to mop up each time. ", 
        "Right, it's more about smart vs not smart, rather than bravery vs cowardice.", 
        "I mean, there are a lot of fighters that do.", 
        "Knuckle head cunts. Its not a real fight anyway, life or death that is. Its good sport, combat is natural and fun, no need to be an asshole", 
        "A lot of fighters are meat heads", 
        "Very true. I was just saying that there are people who know a lot about mma that think tapping is lame.", 
        "Lots of fighters also tend to be stupid. ", 
        "But they do have a clue about mma", 
        "And it fascinates me to no end.", 
        "Like that one dumb bitch who fucked up her back because she didn't wanna tap to a twister in training, and then posted about it proudly online. Can't remember her name, but Jesus Christ she'd stupid.", 
        "[Angela Magana.](http://i.imgur.com/K4P8Ht2.png) So fucking frustrating that she would willingly fuck up her spine rather than let her ego get damaged. In training.", 
        "Yup, that's the dumb bitch right there.", 
        "Dumb bitch!", 
        "In Magana's case I'm ok with it.", 
        "Apparently this was all a joke using a pic from after a car accident, as explained elsewhere.", 
        "Well the 'she's so stupid' part still applies... What a moronic joke ", 
        "She was actually trying to make a joke, that was a photo from a car accident. The sad part is we already hated her so much we believed she actually would not tap.", 
        "Wow, wouldn't tap to a car accident. What the fuck was she trying to prove?", 
        "Nobody above blue belt is gonna tap to a Citroen...", 
        "Damn, Nate was right. I've never seen shit posts like this until Conor tapped. \"Brings humanity back to fighting\"? Fighters have always fucking tapped, it isn't a lost art or anything. ", 
        "As a person who isn't completely off the deep end, I agree. And that includes tapping to strikes.\n\nI understand people calling Conor out because of what he has said in the past, but in a vacuum tapping is an integral part of MMA.", 
        "everything he says is hyperbole solely to bring hype to the fight. a lot of people aren't realizing that incredibly.  Connor wouldn't be anywhere near the draw he is right now if it wasn't for his smacktalk. ", 
        "I find it more important that he understands that people have a right to judge him on his words and actions. Whether he \"just does it for money\" isn't terribly relevant.", 
        "The problem is people actually taking it personally, like when he was calling Diaz broke, there were some people thinking he was making fun of poor people... Conor told everyone in his first ever post-fight conference in the ufc he was receiving welfare just weeks ago.. the point is really that i don't believe what he's saying should be taking totally seriously and he's generally just fucking with his opponents. ", 
        "He still said it. He can't talk a bunch of shit then have no repercussions for the shit he says because he's \"hyping a fight\". He made claims and now he has to eat his words. I'm sure he'll survive.", 
        "i'm cool with people calling him out after the fact, because like you said he can probably take it \n\nbut what i can't understand is why people hate on what he says, both fighters are practically trying to kill each other what the fuck do words mean in that context your telling me these fighter are these pansy ass bitches that they can't take smack talk but they can take a kick to the face \n\ni honestly believe you really don't deserve to be on top anywhere not just in prize fighting unless you can handle the haters i would even add that should be the first thing you should consider if you plan on climbing to the top ", 
        "you could argue he wouldn't even have a belt yet if it wasn't for his ability to shittalk his way into big fights.. i mean he went from fighting denis silver right into being matched up against jose fucking aldo. of course he has had the ability to back up that shit talk, but i'd suspect he'd still be proving himself worthy of a title if it wasn't for his insane confidence and ability to make people want to see him fight through his shit talking. ", 
        "Exactly. We all know he was hyping the fight, when you fail to live up to that hype though people give you shit for it. Its always been that way with every athlete ever. People act like no one understands what Conor was doing, we know what he's doing he didn't invent shit talk lol", 
        "Ctrl-f \"strikes,\" upvote.", 
        "Devil's advocate. What incentive is there to tap to a choke? It's highly unlikely to hurt a healthy athletic person unless it's held for way too long. I don't think any ref has ever let it go on that long in the history of the UFC. Worst case you go unconscious. Why not fight the choke every second you can until you go out?", 
        "i've been chocked the point it felt like my throat was being crushed. makes me tap quickly.", 
        "For sure, if that happens, tap. Usually means the forearm is over the trachea, I believe. I'll tap to guillotines real quick, because I like to be able to eat and drink in comfort, but usually RNC and triangles don't hurt (except for your head slightly feeling like it's going to explode) so I'll try to defend a little longer. Never gone out while training. ", 
        "Wouldn't the humane thing to do, be not to punch and kick another person in the head? The problem with this line of reasoning is that it's necessary conclusion is the sport shouldn't exist, same goes for football and boxing. These are dangerous sports where if you compete for an extended period of time, head trauma is inevitable.\n\nBut these three sports are my personal favorites; they speak to a primal instinct that enjoys violence. I'm not justifying this, I'm just saying it's part of the human psyche. For whatever reason, natural selection has left us with an appreciation for brutality.\n\nr/MMA accept that reality and stop being liberal yuppie douches trying to placate your own conscious. MMA is a necessarily brutal sport, you have to stop lying to yourself and accept that as a fan, you love the spectical surrounding ritualized violence it's an ugly part of human nature.\n\n", 
        "What year is it?!\nTapping has been an integral part of our sport since the beginning.", 
        "This is so dumb, no one has a problem with tapping. What people have a problem with is saying you'll die rather than tap then tap right away. ", 
        "He would say that though I bet he's the kind of pussy that taps to economy class seating on airplanes.", 
        "You're right, in a sense. I definitely buy the upgrade to economy plus for the leg room for any flight over two hours. I'm also much larger than the average person.", 
        "If you lay your seat back in an airplane with your freakishly large body and take away my knee space, i swear to god I will climb you like a rabid squirrel on a redwood and make you pay.", 
        "See, that's why I try to get the extra leg room. Benefits me, benefits you. We all win...when I pay.", 
        "If you keep comparing yourself to average persons, you'll never be great. \n", 
        "Can't argue with that.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/7x3osyb.gif", 
        "Oh Luke. No one is stigmatizing tapping. Guy had big mouth about not tapping. He tapped. Guy rules says he eats crow for awhile. Don't interrupt dinner, it's rude.", 
        "This is the kinda' place where ya'll get upset about how some rappers ain't actually selling crack on the corner, eh?", 
        "Not really.", 
        "If you listen to last weeks podcast he literally expresses the exact same sentiment you're relaying, I think his point is there is a lot of shit you can say about McGregor but calling him a pussy for tapping shouldn't be one of them.", 
        "Well it should be when he stated he wouldn't tap, then pussied out.", 
        "Pretty sure he'd get shit if he just sat there and passed out anyway so that's kind of a moot point. Like I said, there's a lot of shit Conor says before fights that you can shove in his face after a loss, but the sentiment that tapping makes you a pussy is not only stupid but a little irresponsible.", 
        "In mma if you get caught you tap. It goes without saying that anyone calling a professional fighter a pussy for tapping is an idiot. No one is saying that but idiots so who cares?\n\nLuke is pretending there is a new trend among fans that you now can't tap without criticism. That doesn't exist. Luke should stop trying to impede justice and let this fade away after Conor gets the shit talk he asked for.", 
        "No, he's not. He's *literally* saying do not call someone a pussy for tapping, period. ", 
        "No one is that [matters...](https://images.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.reactiongifs.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2013%2F09%2Fgive-up.gif&f=1)", 
        "I agree people are acting like mcgregor is getting bullied or something.", 
        "I won't say he's getting bullied, but this sub has been unreadable since that fight", 
        "When people refuse to tap, you can thank people like Conor for setting the precedent with all his talk, vowing to die before ever surrendering. \n\n>We shouldn't stigmatize tapping...\n\nThen tell Conor to stfu and sort himself out", 
        "Oh fuck off, seriously?\n\n\nDo we have to blame everyone who kills Brazilians now on Conor because he said he was gonna kill them?\n\nFuck it lets blame all murders on Conor then because he said he was gonna kill Aldo \n\n\nWhat a stupid piece of logic", 
        "You must have had half this conversation in your head because I don't see the link between your post and the one you replied to.\n", 
        "This guy gets it", 
        "gets what?", 
        "\"To the death Georges!\" - gives up between rounds on the stool. BJ Penn makes Conor like downright humble in that regard. ", 
        "To be fair, it was Penn's corner who called the fight off.  But BJ did acknowledge that it was a good thing that they did stop the fight.  BJ was getting fucked up bad.", 
        "That's technically true but in interviews it was stated that his brother asked him if he wanted to continue and BJ just stood there unresponsive. Supposedly he asked several times and BJ refused to respond so he threw in the towel. Seems more like he wanted someone else to call the fight off so he didn't have to.", 
        "The Conor damage control continues.", 
        "It really does sound like that is what's going on. People pumping out stories the UFC wants to help them save all the marketing dollars they invest in McG.", 
        "Nate was right. ", 
        "Nate dismantles the biggest fighter in the UFC and everyone is talking about \"what McGregor did wrong\" \"Should McGregor have tapped\" \"Look how brave McGregor was\" \"McGregor is the best at handling losses\" \"Who is McGregor going to fight\"\n\nI'm mostly just talking about the media here because /r/mma might as well be /r/Diaz right now but It's like everyone in the media has secretly agreed not to give Diaz any credit.  Like he just caught Conor on an off day. ", 
        "Are you serious? The amount of Diaz articles since the fight has been insane. He has never got as much exposure add he has now.", 
        "They're old articles. I think jack slack wrote 1 new one and there was the Bieber shit but when it comes to the fight, it's all about Conor.", 
        "Reminds of that time at an [old UFC weigh in.](https://youtu.be/6_BkMAoXAeo?t=16s)", 
        "Then you have the true champions like Jon Jones that pull their arm out and still whoop some ass. No disrespect in tapping though, I know I'd be the first to tap.", 
        "You can do that with an armbar. You can't do that with a Rear Naked Choke.", 
        "I never said anything about a rear naked choke. I'm talking about tapping to any submission in general.", 
        "Lets face it, Conor is brining new fans. They eat up all the shit he spews, so if he says tapping is for pussies its what those people will believe. This is all his fault as a role model. Take it how you want.", 
        "When did Conor say tapping is for pussies?\n", 
        "He didn't say that exactly but saying he'd never tap seems to imply \"warriors never tap\" or however you want to phrase it.", 
        "I was drinking at a party once a few years back with a lot of friends. One guy who was a white belt wanted to roll with me, he was sober. We had a bit of fun and he got his legs around my neck/arm and I tapped quickly. People gave me shit for that, I told them there is no shame is admitting you're beaten to save your body especially when your life isn't on the line. These same guys gave me shit for getting manicures. Guess what, they all come with me now to get their nails done that shit is relaxing and nice. I don't mean like painted up but keeping those cuticles clean/neat and maybe a light gloss. If you haven't, maybe give it a try. ", 
        "Tapping IS NOT stigmatized.\n\nConor 1) said he wouldn't tap as part of his EPIC shit talking which also included 2) saying Diaz's BJJ was overrated.\n\nSo yes, I will enjoy the rubbing of it in his face with absolutely no shame.", 
        "I think we should acknowledge that tapping to a choke is different than tapping to anything else.\n\nWe wouldnt be having this discussion if that was an armbar.   \n\n", 
        "Hm. Ok. Now tell that to McGregor because he's the one who said he'd never tap again.\n\n", 
        "it's more of a matter of who taps, if conor went out ala holm, and holm tapped, then no one would call out holm for tapping\n\n\nwhen you say youre willing to die, you laugh a man's upbringings, you say you will kill him in the ring, etc all this stuff and then tap quicker than northcut, you should be getting all this crap\n\n\nnorthcutt on the other hand is someone who i don't understand the backlash", 
        "\"then tap quicker than northcut\", and proceed to say \"northcutt on the other hand is someone who i don't understand the backlash\". I wonder why? ", 
        "> and then tap quicker than northcut\n\nDamn bro, the truth is just so fucking brutal sometimes... I think we need to add another loss to Mystic Mac's record.", 
        "Man I don't understand why you are getting down voted. You are correct, no one would have said a peep about Holm.\n\nThe only reason Conor is getting shit is because he said he would not tap AND he has talked endless amounts of shit about the other fighters.\n\nThis is how the world works!!\n\nIf you talk down to people - *for whatever reason, be it money, intimidation, for fun* - when you fall, they are going to talk down to you.\n\nNo one gives a fuck about tapping or not tapping. For real. I've never heard anyone talk about it before all this went down.\n\nThe fact is that Conor opened himself up to this when he was talking an absurd amount of shit about the other fighters in the UFC.\n\nIt has absolutely zero to do with tapping and stigma and any of that and it has everything to do with Conor reaping what he sowed. ", 
        "Was this even a debate for the last two decades of MMA? ", 
        "JUST BLEED", 
        "NOPE. ", 
        "I remember watching this security video of a thug trying to steal a motorcycle from a biker, the biker reacts and takes him down and gets the rear naked choke on him. The thug starts tapping his arm as if to say \"ok, you got me.\" It's hilarious since the guy is obviously not let go of him until police arrives. But it just goes to show how hardcoded the act of tap out is in our brains, and unless you go out too fast like Holm, your instinct will be to tap it cause you like your body to keep functioning properly.\n\nThe thug also took a serious beating from other people that showed up after, that part wasn't so funny...", 
        "The first thing you get good at in grappling is tapping.  When something is in really deep it's not even something you think about, it's automatic, this is a good thing though.  Sometimes you're caught in something, it's not crazy tight, but you can't get out and you gotta do one of those aww fuck you got me taps too. \n\nThe only time it makes sense to go out is if you think you're escaping and you were just wrong.   ", 
        "Why would we stigmatise it? Call me a romantic, but I like to see honour and respect in competetive fighting. It's something that's washed out by the smack-talk etc. in today's sport, but that doesn't mean it's not there. \n\nIt's not fighting that cunt at the pub who wants you to \"put them up\". It's two people going head-to-head under regulations. It's a contest, and multiple gameplans and tactics are at work. Live to fight another day is the golden rule. You can be a tough guy/girl and incur brain damage, or you can bow out and train up to go again. \n\nTo me, the choice is simple. There are some situations where you cannot get out. It has fuck-all to do with being tough. That's all that needs to be said. ", 
        "Pretty sure that is what it already signifies... ", 
        "That Mir-Sylvia fight always comes to mind when the subject comes up. Maybe it was just adrenaline, but holy shit he was about to slam him with a broken arm!", 
        "Most of the people that criticize tapping are people who have never done bjj/judo, and have never been in a proper armbar or choke. These are the same people that boo when it goes to the ground. What they don't understand is just how ruthless, and painful grappling is. Every guard pass, every sweep, every dominate position hurt if done properly. Having someone slice your midsection with their knee/shin fucking hurts. Knee on belly really hurts. Getting your groin split hurts, shoulder pressure to your jaw hurts. It's all pain. There is no easy part of fighting on the ground. ", 
        "There is no tapping stigma, there is just a tiny minority that likes to act tough, demean others, and annoy others. Probably also all hypocrites who would themselves tap enthusiastically if their lights were going out.\n\nI don't understand why any non-wanker would take any notice, there is no stigma, its not real.", 
        "The only people that have an issue with tapping are media talking heads and the blood thirsty average fans. Those are typically the loudest people as well.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3vHW4e3frkI", 
        "Wow, is this really what people think? They have clearly never been the wrong side of an arm bar.", 
        "How is this not common sense?\n", 
        "As everyone else has mentioned. Tapping is a good thing. I tap,it saves me from going unconscious.  \n\nConor tapping was a good thing,he knew he was beat. If he hadn't spouted so much bullshit over never tapping it wouldn't be an issue,but we do like to throw things back at people.", 
        "This is obvious...no way this would be at the top of this sub if Luke wasn't talking about Conor.", 
        "I'm also much larger than the guy who runs his mouth get handled.", 
        "THEORY: This mentality was spawned from the WWF. Seriously. When a wrestler lost via submission it would be considered a sign of weakness and later that wrestler would be reminded and ridiculed for tapping. Wrestlers called out for tapping would react to the notion as though their sexuality had been questioned. Tapping would even be used as the driving force in feuds. I may be wrong but I don't think i'm too far off base considering that WWF/WWE was probably more popular in the late 90's and early 2000's than MMA is right now.", 
        "Because I was brought up on Pro Wrestling it's hard for me to disconnect tapping out with somebody giving up. After Triple H tapped out to the crowd chanted \"you tapped out\" to make fun of him but on the other hand what made Stone Cold a baddass initially is that he never tapped out to Bret's Sharpshooter and passed out. I've always thought that getting submission victories was more impressive than knockouts simply because you're making somebody give up. It's not the right way to think about it but I wonder if other people share my sentiment.", 
        "I've tapped early and I've tapped late.  I prefer tapping early.", 
        "It's kind of a disturbing trend how many fighters have come out and said they wish they didnt tap after XXXXX loss after watching the way Holm lost. Especially Paige van Zant, it came off as very immature and almost delusional. I completely agree with what Luke Thomas said, tapping brings humanity back to this sport. For these athletes to not tap and also say they wish they didnt tap in past submission losses is sending the wrong message and not going to do MMA any favors. ", 
        "I'm surprised that most of the people here speak out for less violence. I mean - there are some brutal(!) GIFs in this sub. ", 
        "Let me say this: I understand his sentiment. And watching someone else tap out doesn't bother me, there have been times in my life where \"pride was kicking me in the ass\", to quote Marcellus Wallace from Pulp Fiction.  \n\nOne, I accepted a fight against an opponent who had 50 pounds on me. He had me in a choke lock, but he was whispering to me some bullshit like, \"O.K. now, go to sleep.\" or something, and it made me so fucking angry, I wouldn't tap. The ref stopped it. I lost, but I got to get up and give him the Raging Bull.\n\nhttps://youtu.be/5wwItkoapuA\n\nSecond was on the rugby pitch. I'm 190. We played against a Samoan/Fijian/Maori team that too a man was 250 or more. It became a huge battle of wills. They kept pounding away at us. At one point, I had a Samoan on me that must have weighed 300 on my back trying to suffocate me in the dirt with his forearm on the back of my head. \n\nSo they were figuratively trying to get us to \"tap out\". But fuck it never happened. We lost, but being up 10-0 at the half was what motivated us.\n\n", 
        "I actually didn't know there was ever a stigma against tapping.  I know Holly looked like a badass for refusing to tap but really it's just a sign of inexperience in grappling.", 
        "Tapping to strikes is the cardinal sin in mma. Curious how long have you been watching?", 
        "Who taps to strikes?", 
        "Well most famously GSP vs Serra and Shogan vs Bones, it's rare but it happens every so often. Most recently the joke that fought Fedor on New Years. \n\nEdit: to be honest I was reading about tapping to strikes further down in this thread, I read you post in that context I now see you weren't referencing that, my bad.", 
        "It's not even about \"I've had enough\" I just think it's stupid if you know you're not getting out of it, just fucking tap. Why risk the extra damage to your brain instead of saying, ok fuck I might as well tap and not have brain damage and come back stronger next time. No shame in tapping at all. Save you health, come back better next time. That's it.", 
        "Tell that to Conor. He created the stigma. We arent the ones who made fun of Nate for teaching kids jiu jitsu only to tap out to the same choke nate was probably teaching his kids in said classes. ", 
        "Nobody made fun of Nate for teaching kids Jiu jitsu. ", 
        "^This is was poking holes in the juxtaposition in Nate's character. One minute he is a gangland hood, the next minute he's down the community centre. He was pointing out that Nate isn't a gangster, he's infact a \"credit to the community\".\n\nBut, lets pretend he was mocking jiu jitsu. Because it fits the narrative. ", 
        "When did Nate ever say he was a gangster? Didn't Conor say he wouldn't tap? \n\nedit: i like how no one had a response to this. Also: Conor *did* mock jiu jitsu. Hence the irony when he was forced to tap. ", 
        "Listen I may not be a huge mcgregor fan but you're out of line calling him a nobody. ", 
        "This.", 
        "I agree with you but the nuance of that is getting heavily lost amid a bunch of \"Lol Conor tapped, fucking pussy!\" diatribe. Maybe not so much in this sub but beyond it. So I think it's good for Luke to point out that tapping is actually a great idea about 99% of the time ", 
        "It's extremely evident Conor was using it to make fun of Nate portraying a gangster but doing non-gangster like activities, not making fun of him for those activities.", 
        "You're saying gangstas don't care about those close to them? You might be confused about what a \"gang\" is", 
        "I'm saying argue semantics all you want but the image that comes to mind of a Mexican gangster is not one people associate with charity and paying back to the community regardless of what you're experience is.", 
        "Exactly. People are playing dumb. That was the entire point of that joke. I didn't think it was funny but the point was clear as day, I thought", 
        "So its cool to make fun of someone who DOES do charitable things as lokg as they portray a thug appearance? I hope this helps many people realize the extreme bias and idiocy that conor has caused in the mma community and how we chose to back certain fighters. It's reaching a point of insanity", 
        ">So its cool to make fun of someone who DOES do charitable things as lokg as they portray a thug appearance? \n\nSince absolutely no one anywhere in this thread said that I am going to say no and where you inferred that from I have no idea.\n\n", 
        "You explained Conor's burn about Nate's work with kids with no regard for the tastelessness of Conor's comments. You were defending his decision to make those comments and arguing gangstas don't do those things so it makes sense to put someone down for working with kids while also coming from a thug background. Thats showing your support of what he said which is exactly what i just argued and you further proved my point that as long as the bs comes out Conor's mouth, his beliebers will eat it up to no end without even realizing they are doing it. ", 
        ">You explained Conor's burn about Nate's work with kids **with no regard for the tastelessness of Conor's comments.**\n\n>You were defending his decision to make those comments\n\nThis is why you are still wrong, his tastelessness has nothing to do with explaining the context of his comments and I was not defending or supporting his comments.\n\nYou need to separate you're personal feeling or reaction to what was said, it's not about if what he said was rude or not rude or right or not right, it's about what was said and what was wrongly inferred from what was said.\n\nHow you personally react to the comments is entirely irrelevant to the discussion.\n\n\n ", 
        "Only muppets have stigmatised tapping - they're the same muppets that want to see a stand and bang war. \nPoint is: They don't know. End of. \n ", 
        "Tapping is where we draw the line that this is a sport and not a violent battle to the death. Tapping gives MMA legitimacy in the sports world.", 
        "I don't follow basketball, but what's wrong with the name Washington Wizards?\nI personally am a fan of wizards, http://imgur.com/gallery/v1whKCr what's not to like? Wizards cant be any worse than nicks. I don't even know what a nick is, at first glance it feels like a racial slang word from the 50's. ", 
        ">  nick\n\nits \"The New York Knickerbockers\" which.... well yea, it kinda rhymes with a pretty racial term lol", 
        "I can't believe anyone would give a fighter crap for tapping. I remember Forrest Griffin in an interview (I think it might have even been before the first TUF finale) saying, 'If it's between me tapping and breaking my arm, I'll tap. I'll tap my little heart out.' \n\nNot tapping means broken bones and lost consciousness. If a RNC is cinched in, there's no reason to not tap. Save yourself the passing out and trip to the hospital. Same with an armbar/broken arm.  \n\nThe Gracies are the fucking WORST about it. I remember Sakuraba breaking Renzo Gracie's arm in Pride, and Renzo being all, 'That was a bullshit stop. I had him.' \n\nedit: Looking at articles, Renzo wasn't an ass about it. A lot of the other Gracies are still assholes, though.", 
        "it was Royler, his arm hangs like a damn marionette arm when he stands up too, its clearly wrecked, at least temporarily.", 
        "Since when is tapping stigmatized? The only reason most people are giving him shit is because he said hes willing to die in the cage and has given people shit in the past for \"giving up\" but tapped extremely quickly to the least painful submission there is.", 
        "I'm just a casual observer but didn't Connor shit talk people who tapped? And he proceeds to go down and tap to avoid knockout (Which is fine but he is the one who mocked tapping beforehand). I'm pretty sure he deserves to get dumped on for being a hypocrite or am I missing something?", 
        "I agree. It's what they do in practice everyday. Tapping =  Ya Got Me", 
        "[Not exactly the same situation, but still a tad hypocritical](https://twitter.com/SBNLukeThomas/status/693607034894176256)", 
        "Tapping shouldn't be stigmatized or celebrated... It's what you do when there's no other way out. It is what it is. \n\nIt's not like Holm was determined to go unconscious.. She's just tried to fight out and blackness took her sooner than expected ", 
        "Truly. In my mind, they are testing to see who is the \"best\", tapping is just one way of determining that. ", 
        "Yes we should! This is what the sport is. Stop trying to change it. It is a competition to see who the tougher guy is. The media ruined football, leave this alone. Yes people get hurt, yes people get brain damage. They are fighting. This has been around for as long as people have. If you don't want to deal with the physicality of it, don't do it. What is this guy's experience with fighting? Has he ever competed?\n\nConner isn't being stigmatized for tapping, he is being stigmatized for breaking after talking such a strong game. Rather than go out on his shield, he took an easy way out by diving for a sloppy takedown and flipping to his back, giving his neck, and tapping immediately. That's where he loses the respect.\n", 
        "Why would Luke Thomas need to remind people of that? Is he starting to be influenced by the idiot section of fans? \n\nAny real martial artist or anyone that trains understands that tapping is a necessity and a part of competition. Only people that criticize tapping out are people that don't train and don't fight.", 
        "\"Only people that criticize tapping out are people that don't train and don't fight.\" Wait, what? The whole point is Conor was the one criticizing tapping before the Diaz fight. Are you saying Conor doesn't train or fight? Besides Conor, there have been tons of well known fighters that have criticized tapping.", 
        "I talk about what I get asked about on the chat. And yes, there is a clear cadre of fans who question the merits of tapping, albeit in a somewhat limited capacity.", 
        "I just wish you wouldn't cater to them even if they might seem like the majority. You and I both know those type of fans need to be educated or ignored.", 
        "Isn't this article focused on educating them? ", 
        "It is. You're right. +1\n\nI guess i'm just bothered that there are so many that need to be educated. But that's probably a great reason for an article. \n\nIt feel like the articles written on web sites like MMAfighting or anything Luke is associated with is really only read or heard by hardcore fans who should know better though.", 
        "I have only watched MMA since Rousey/Holm*, and I have listened to Luke Thomas regularly since then -- I need lots of educating.\n\n*Not including watching the very first UFC tournaments.\n\n", 
        "Fair enough. I stand corrected. \n\nI'm glad people are out there wanting to learn and people are out there helping them along.", 
        "And to be fair -- I didn't have a problem with tapping to begin with. However, I am a bit of hypocrite, because I did have that, 'Wow, Holly went out swinging!' reaction to her fight.", 
        "Yeah but serious NFL journalists don't feel the need to pander to the lowest common denominator of football fandom and write an article about \"Why you shouldn't always go for it on 4th down\". And that's because no football franchise is going to start playing stupid football to entertain those fans. And I wouldn't worry that other fighters are going to start saying \"Oh man I better stop tapping to chokes or people are going to mock me like Conor\".  \n\nIt's plain as day that this is entirely just a reaction to Conor talking the biggest game in the business and fans relishing in his loss. It's just a convenient coincidence that Holly didn't tap right before that. It's up to the fighter and this segment is for brownie points.", 
        "But the NFL also doesn't have many (any) fans who call teams out for not going for it on 4th down. MMA does. Which makes sense, I'd bet a lot more football fans have either played football (even just as kids in the park), or even just played football videogames. And if a team does try going for it on 4th, the announcers will talk about the risks involved.\n\nI'd bet MMA has a lot more fans who have very little hands on experience with the sport than football does.", 
        "Have you seen how some football fans conduct themselves online? They'll talk shit about opposing teams and opposing fans for any reason under the sun. MMA fans aren't attacking tapping. They're attacking CONOR tapping. The virtues of tapping vs not tapping have never been a serious debate and I don't think it's shown to have actually curved fighters behavior. The point I'm making is for an accomplished journalist to feel the need to address it now is low hanging fruit. When a fighter is caught in a RNC and the elevator doors are closing, I really doubt they care about our opinions. It's the end of the fight anyway lol.\n\nI respect your last point though. And because of the nature of combats sports that likely won't change.", 
        "The question I was answering dealt with an Invicta fighter not tapping. I agree this is largely a reaction to McGregor, but the current discussion is wider than that.", 
        "Wasn't there a wmma fighter that was bragging about not tapping from her hospital bed? ", 
        "Angela Magana, and she almost made it out of that twister too...", 
        "The best part about a twister is how when it's applied properly that your change of getting out of it, whether through muscling it or even using technique, is most of the time as likely as the black rhino not going extinct within the next ten years. Everywhere you try to move you basically only put more stress on your spine. There's literally nothing else you can muscle out of if the headlock part is locked in.\n\nIf the black rhino doesn't go extinct within the next ten years then I'll finish the job myself to make that analogy work.", 
        "Keep the black rhinos out of this, man. If they could tap, they would.", 
        "This is a fucking stupid argument to be having in the first place. At first I thought it was pretty badass of Holly to not tap and keep fighting to the end, mostly because I'd never seen that in WMMA before, but now I wish she'd just tapped a few seconds before she passed out so that this whole thing would go away. After all, if Holly hadn't passed out I don't think this would never have come up.\n\nIf you're in a choke in the position Conor was against a guy with the submission skills of Diaz, there's literally no way that you're getting out of it. There should be no stigma attached to admitting that your opponent has beaten you, and I hope that in the future fighters don't refuse to tap because they think they'll be called a pussy, because this could go from tapping to chokes make you a bitch to ANY tap makes you one, and that's going to simply lead to snapped limbs and ended careers.", 
        "Holly did tap, ref was a goof and missed it.", 
        "well.....She cleary talked about not tapping in the post fight press conference, so no. That was just the panic reaction before blacking out.", 
        "I still think it's badass to not tap like Holly... but it's also really stupid and not something that should be encouraged at all. \n\nOne thing I heard from the Gracies on this subject is kinda interesting. Supposedly they taught chokes more than joint locks because they had experience in those vale tudo competitions of opponents that would simply fight their way through submissions. I mean, how effective is an armbar against someone willing to let their arm get broken? So the Gracies preferred chokes because they were guaranteed to end a fight, unlike joint locks. ", 
        "Couldn't agree more, the sport of MMA needs to get over the whole \"macho\" bullshit of not tapping.", 
        "Or maybe just Conor's bullshit.....", 
        "This is such a non-story. Nobody who actually watches MMA thinks there's anything wrong with tapping. We're feeding the trolls here people....", 
        "Some people tap some people don't. That's just how it is, let them decide.", 
        "The best part about a twister is how when it's applied properly that your opponent has beaten you, and I hope that in the octagon.", 
        "am i retard or are you", 
        "I don't Even follow MMA but this quote/opinion is one the more sportsman-like Things Ive Heard.", 
        "MMA just needs this man", 
        "i lose 500, you better go out like Holly!!!", 
        "100% agreed.  As someone who trains and has competed myself, there's nothing worse in the gym or in competition than the guy that won't tap.  I don't train because I enjoy hurting people, and I suspect that goes for most of us.  But if you won't tap, you more or less force me to hurt you, which I don't want to do.  And I feel like you are trying to take advantage of my humane instinct to not cause needless suffering.  So now that makes me very annoyed too, so I will go ahead and hurt you if I have to, but I will not like it and later on I will feel bad about getting annoyed and hurting someone because I'm not a sociopath.\n\nTL;DR just tap if you're caught.  It's not a test of your 'manhood' to hold out and keep from tapping; 9/10 all you're doing is annoying someone and putting them in an uncomfortable position they don't want to be in of being forced to seriously hurt you.  1/100 you're fighting a Palhares type in which case tap or don't; they don't care, they're gonna hurt you anyway.", 
        "Additionally, because he tapped and didn't risk brain damage from the loss of oxygen to the brain that comes with passing out, he can definitely fight in the next couple months. Had he not tapped and been choked out or knocked out if he escaped that position, his chances of fighting at UFC 200 (which will be a massive payday) would be dramatically decreased.\n\nSmart for his brain, smart for his bank. ", 
        "This is still an issue? Lol", 
        "Nobody is stigmatizing tapping, except the casuals, who don't matter.", 
        "I agree. But on the other hand, I do see a lot of posts from fighters and fight fans that like to say things near the lines of \"So and so went out like a warrior\" and \"blah blah wouldn't tap to strikes!\" which seem to glorify not tapping.", 
        "One of the things I hate most about MMA are the fans who come out only to see blood and violence. Don't tap when you're submitted?? Go watch boxing, retards.", 
        "ILL DIE BEFORE I TAP   *dies*", 
        "As a person that's not only not a fan of Conor, but dislikes him, him being shit on for tapping, however quick you feel it was, is retarded. Frankly, people are probably only saying this because Holm happened to lose the same way, and didn't tap. Furthermore, we all laugh at War Machine for saying stupid shit like tapping is for pussies - so why shit on Conor? Dude was rocked, and a legit bjj black belt had him. You're not getting out. ", 
        "Just weighing in on Conor maybe tapping \"early\"...when I see \"early\" taps, I usually see it as either lack of experience or the mark of experience (situation dependent).  Usually, when somebody taps \"early\" they either have no clue what is going on or how to get out of it, or they know that they have been overcome and realize that they won't be able to get out in time.", 
        "I am not a big sports guy and i would often criticize friends / coworkers that would spend time watching sports center and the like. Then i found the MMA Beat and mainly all Luke's podcasts, eating your own words is not always bitter.", 
        "Luke Thomas has quickly become one of the best mma analysts. Every week, he seems to have some great new insight or way of saying what we're all thinking but unable to articulate", 
        "Yeah, the human element of being a little bitch! Ohhhhhh!", 
        "Fucking keyboard warriors. For those who trained BJJ for a long time now, tapping doesn't mean \"Okay I'm your bitch now\". It just means you respect the technique, willing to learn from it and would restart again. \n\nProblem with some people is that they think they know how to fight. And they think they know how to fight honorably. Martial Arts ain't natural instinct bro.", 
        "Tapping to Dave the White Belt on a tuesday night at your local BJJ academy doesn't quite have the same consequences and gravitas though, does it?\n\nIt's easy to tap early and often when there is absolutely nothing on the line. The guys in the UFC are competing for (lots of) money and legacy.\n\nMMA fights are not training, they are competition. It is reasonable to question a fighter's competitive spirit and will to win if they tap instantly to chokes. You prepared for months for this fight and you're just going to give up the second I put my forearm across your throat?\n\nOf course tapping to joint locks or strikes are different situations because there are long term consequences to having your shit snapped or taking loads of brain trauma, but people are conflating all three because it suits their argument.", 
        "I know it's not great as the UFC but I competed in grappling tournaments. I trained and diet for months before competition. So I know the feeling even a little.\n\nNate just didn't put his forearm across Conor's neck, if you trained BJJ you know the mechanics of an RNC, how to escape it and what a \"tight\" RNC looks like. Nate secured the RNC quickly then laid down to his \"strong\" side which makes it more hard for conor to defend and escape the choke.\n\nConor is above blue belt, he knows what a tight choke is. He knows what subs he can escape. Conor knows that the choke is tight, waiting for it to make him sleep won't make any difference to the decision, he will lose. So why prolong the agony and risk being put to sleep?\n\nLastly, it's not reasonable to question a fighter's competitive spirit based on if they tap instantly to chokes or not. They are at least higher than blue belt, they know what danger they are in and they know it won't make a difference it they just hold on to their dear life. ", 
        "Tapping is not the problem, but if you say you rather die before you tap again and you consider yourself a god you put everybody under a bus. People will give you shit .", 
        "He was talking more about glorification of Holly for not tapping.", 
        "No shit , but only became a issue when Conor lost . Its damage control more than anything else.", 
        "but holly was trying to tap.", 
        "She was? How do you know ?", 
        "Right after the fight I believe she said that she thought she tapped.", 
        "Why do we care what this dude says? Get over it and move on! If he is really about mma analysis he wouldnt care what a small portion of fans think. These Conor nuthuggers are driving me crazy! You send any heat conors way and the justice warriors  get on their high horse and preach like the world depends on it! \n\nSo he tapped? Who cares? This is borderline on par with the guy crying about people being mean to Britney spears in a selfie video. If you keep defending it, people will keep trying to counter your defense. \n\nNow all of a sudden Conor is a martyr be cause be tapped? \n\nHolly was ten times more humble in her defeat an she lost a belt! Conor basically got paid a million dollars for a lesson in mma vs a beater fighter and we are defending him to no end. Whats with this fucking overwhelming bias? ", 
        "I don't know about you guys but I'd rather go out 5 times like McGregor than once like Holm.", 
        "What we would rather is irrelevant to this discussion. ", 
        "Uh... he is directly adressing the fan opinion in this matter.", 
        "What I meant is what we would rather, *if we were fighters*. Which is how you worded it.\n\nSurely he was not referring to the opinion of fans in that way...Was he? \n", 
        "Who do you think he means by \"we\", professional fighters, which he is not, serious mma journalists which have blasted Conor for tapping, which they haven't, or the fans?", 
        "He doesn't mean we the fans, as in if we were actually in there.\nHe means we the fans, as in how we want the fighters to behave.\n\nNo one cares about what we would rather if we were the fighters. I couldn't think of anything less interesting to discuss.\n\nLike, if I were a fighter, I'd never touch gloves and I'd scream at my opponent across the cage like a banshee during the introductions. Wanna talk about that? ", 
        "I think it is just a reflection in the sport of MMA in general.", 
        "Tap early, tap often in training. It's surprising seeing how many UFC fighters seemingly don't know their limits when it comes to submissions/tapping. It isn't worth it to get an injury, it just isn't. It never will be. From 196, you see an example of something good to follow and something bad. \n\nYou see Conor clearly lose and tap because he knows he can't get out.\n\nYou see Holm have no idea that she's been beaten and refuse to tap to the point where she goes unconscious punching at the air.", 
        "> You see Holm have no idea that she's been beaten and refuse to tap to the point where she goes unconscious punching at the air.\n\nIn her case, the risk vs reward was greater for not tapping. 1. it was a championship fight and she could have won. 2. it was the 5th round and there was a strong possibility meisha wouldn't be able to hold the choke without having to readjust or let it off.", 
        "i would rather seem my favorite fighters tap and fight again than get fucked up and be forced into an early retirement. every little bit of damage takes some time off a fighter's career.", 
        "Getting punched does more brain damage than tapping. You probably do more damage in a heavy night of drinking.", 
        "I guess someone forgot to pass that memo along to Ali and all those other legendary fighters who can no longer do simple math in their head. If you know you are going to get choked out, hyper extended or even taking some ground and pound, if you know you cant get out of it whats the sense in taking extra damage?", 
        "Just like that chick who refused to tap to a twister.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Pussaaaaay", 
        "Tapping is a normal part of fighting. it shows he know knew he was beat. ", 
        "Tapping is a different kind of courage in itself - admitting that your opponent is the better man at that moment, that night.", 
        "Kinda sad that Luke even had to say this to us. Isn't it common sense?", 
        "I don't get it, you're suppose to tap . When did not tapping become the cool thing to do?", 
        "You and me both, since I was a kid I was taught to tap before injury. ", 
        "Exactly , It doesn't make you less of a man/woman ", 
        "Luke Thomas is always pushing his sensitivities onto everything.\n\n\"So let me tell you about Trump\" nah, how about you don't. Nobody cares.", 
        "imagine if jon jones tapped against vitor... champions don't tap.", 
        "I can tell that you've never grappled just based off of this utterly retarded comment.", 
        "Keyword here is Champion not rolling at practice", 
        "It doesn't make sense to give up. Jon jones got injured and still won.", 
        "Ffs Conor taps now we change the goal posts", 
        "Ffs Conor taps now we change the goal posts", 
        "Ffs Conor taps now we change the goal posts", 
        "This is a BS rant about tapping from an eternal spectator who knows so little about MMA psychology it's shameful anyone watches or reads his drivel.\n\nNo one stigmatizes tapping. Everyone understands that people have their limit. A big reason to watch these fights is to see where a persons limits in fact are. When pushed to the limit how does a person react is what we want to see. People comment on the limits they observe fighters stopping their fight. Fans have every right to comment on sports, especially one of the main issues in a combat sport like surrendering.\n\nFurther there is no need to 'bring humanity back to fighting' either. MMA is a sport with rules and a referee to enforce those rules. It's actually a safe sport given the premise of the competition. There is nothing dehumanizing about wanting a fighter to not tap. Just like there is nothing dehumanizing about wanting a fighter to stand up and punch rather than wrestle. Tapping is simply one aspect of the sport like everything else. I say a fighters BJJ is great or his Striking is great or his 'chin' is great or he never taps...all compliments on fighting aspects.\n\nIn fact, given the author has been around MMA so long I'm surprised to hear 'humanity' needs to come back to fighting. From my armchair it seems like a sentiment of someone who has done so little combat sports that they really don't have a deep understanding of them. To suggest people 'celebrate it' when talking about giving up is so opposite to the nature of combat sports. The vast majority of fighters train to extend their limits to surrendering. They constantly talk to the public about not tapping for very good reasons psychologically. Combat veterans have that battle experience to improve their ability to not surrender. Military training is focused on improving a recruits ability to not surrender while recognizing everyone has a limit.\n\nAnyway, we all get to read what we want. Enjoy Luke's subtle bashing of fans and the sport itself if that's your thing. ", 
        "Um ok", 
        "http://gfycat.com/GrippingImmenseBilby", 
        "Checkmate atheists.", 
        "Holy shit you haven't posted in two years", 
        "Hey, look at Conor smiling at the camera between rounds. WHAT A COCKEY PRICK /s", 
        "He was gassed, damnit.", 
        "ha ha ha , correct, and you could tell that he was thinking he was gonna win or atleast wanted to give out the image that he was winning ", 
        "He's a showman, he's playing up to the crowd, he done it against Mendes as well.", 
        "He seemed pretty happy to see himself. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "I wouldn't be surprised if they only did it for reactions like this. ", 
        "you always like calling everybody names? ", 
        "Shut up Jabroni. ", 
        " is this all you do?  tell people to shut up and call them names for no reason? \n\nkeep fronting..you're probably some 12 year old girl trying to get her trolling girl scout badge or something..", 
        "I said this at the time and glad to see this posted. This showed that the true Conor had fallen victim to his own hype.", 
        "What's that John? Keep throwing haymakers? OKAY!!!", 
        "Really seems like thats what went through his mind.", 
        "Conor did well in the first round, he couldn't keep that pace up especially with a guy like Nate that's where his faults were not because he was throwing haymakers.", 
        "Now that's some match making we can appreciate, Cain in a non-rematch against someone most of us want to see get beat up. ", 
        "This match isn't really fair to Travis.  Cain's heavy brow ridge is like a natural defensive shield against eye pokes.", 
        "Nice, that means we'll finally see Rothwell vs Browne after Cain pulls out ", 
        "Cain the P4P king of the pull out game.", 
        "Travis isn't allowed to Pull out.... Ronda submits that penis.", 
        "I heard they stand and bang for 5 rounds.", 
        "His one kid disputes that ", 
        "Actually pretty good for someone of Mexican descent", 
        "fakest mexican ever", 
        "And so the official fight announcement/rumors for 200 begin. Going to be a fun couple of weeks as these all come out.\n\nUFC going full fan service with booking Travis' execution, off to a good start!", 
        "CAIINN VELASSQUEZZ about to do 50 leg ups, nfl linemen do about 15 of these, for his fight against juior dos santos we'll be getting him up to 100... Go...1.Harder....2.Harder....3..Faster...4..NICEE", 
        "Wow that's gonna awesome as long as he can show up but I think it's at the point where even if he shows up his body won't ever be 100%", 
        "Nice fight. I imagine it's going to be pretty low on the main card though for 200.\n\nIf Cain's healthy he smashes Browne.", 
        "Are we going to see the beast Cain or the shitty half injured Cain.", 
        "Beast Cain dieded a long time ago.", 
        "He dead ", 
        "Yes", 
        "I was hoping they would announce the main and co-main events of UFC 200 before revealing anything (even \"in the works\" teasers like this) about the other fights.  ", 
        "Can't wait to see Rothwell vs Browne when Cain pulls out.", 
        "Im not even gonna get excited for this fight. Im already curious whose going to replace Cain? Id like to see the winner of Hunt/Mir vs Browne", 
        "Get those Mexican views", 
        "Warm up fight for Cain if he doesn't pull out...", 
        "YES!", 
        "I'm hoping this card is so stacked and injury free that this is the first fight on the PPV.", 
        "[**@UFCTonight**](https://twitter.com/UFCTonight):\n>[2016-03-17 00:33:08 UTC](https://twitter.com/UFCTonight/status/710262659426308096)\n\n>Cain Velasquez vs. Travis Browne in the works for UFC 200 \\(per [@arielhelwani](https://twitter.com/arielhelwani)\\) [*foxsports.com*](http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/ufc-cain-velasquez-vs-travis-browne-in-the-works-for-ufc-200-031616)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4aqntp%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "Whoop de doo!\n\nGive me a fight of someone who isn't constantly hurt vs someone  no one really gives a shit about but we only do because he's banging Ronda. \n\nYawn. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Wrong thread. Or weird ass matchmaking.", 
        "Travis has this one in the bag.\n\nUnder the right circumstances.", 
        "This would be the first opponent Cain has faced not named Bigfoot Silva, JDS or Werdum since he beat Brock in October 23, 2010.", 
        "Where have I seen this stat before? ", 
        "Werdum?l", 
        "First non Brazilian", 
        "werdum", 
        "Yup forgot him.", 
        "You shot that down quick as hell.", 
        "Hopefully this is either a prelim fight, or a joke. Cain has no business on the main card and the UFC knows it.", 
        "..what the fuck lmao\n\nAre you dumb or trolling? Cain is injury prone beyond belief but the dude is undoubtedly a main card fighter", 
        "Little of both maybe. At this point in his career, Cain is a proven liability. ", 
        "That explains the bullying", 
        "OP... wtf are you doing with your free time", 
        "I had the entire day off. I have been so bored... need NCAA tournament to start tomorrow. I watched a few Korean Zombie and GSP fights and it got crazy from there..eating dinosaur chicken nuggets soon.", 
        "Well... ok then I can't hate if you watched any Korean zombie. \n\n>eating dinosaur chicken nuggets soon\n\nDa fuck... are you like 18 years old? ", 
        "I think you mean 10 years old. The context in which you said that made it seem like you were saying they're for kids, but 18 isn't a kid. You worded that weird", 
        "18 is a kid to me :( I must be old", 
        "Probably. I'm just a wee little kid then, I'm 19.", 
        "Seriously. Mickey Mouse nuggets are way better.", 
        "You got a stash of old BK nuggets, my dude?", 
        "Wait.. chicken nuggets in the shape of dinosaurs?!\n\nHoly shit, are you some kinda Food Scientist?", 
        "I randomly decided to see what GSP looked like w out a shaved head and came across these gems. \n\n\nRussian Gangster: http://www.petitpetitgamin.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/2014051530OW5K_620.png\n\n\nAnother kid pic w hair: http://www.bloodandsweat.ru/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/14.jpg", 
        "Are these from your own collection, in the folder labelled \"Not children, just documents, DON'T OPEN\"?", 
        "'You ever had a gun put to your'e head George? your friend ever been shot in the chest with a 45?\"", 
        "Mighty Ducks starting left winger. ", 
        "This is great, I'd never seen these.", 
        "Shitpost go away come again never", 
        "Fuck u, FuBu 4 life.", 
        "TMZ GSP Edition: High School Pics You Wouldn't Believe!!!", 
        "The UFC will not give RDA the Lawler fight.", 
        "Props for a better title than the last guy.", 
        "What was it?", 
        "\"Rafael Dos Santos wants to fight Nick Diaz' lil brother or the guy Carlos Condit lost to via controversial decision in his last fight at Ultimate Fighting Championships 200\"", 
        "It was along of the lines of \"RDA got turned down to fight Diaz Lawler at 200\" - just badly worded. I see it got deleted.", 
        "Not sure about Nate. But I could see RDA and Ruthless going to war!", 
        "I second that! ", 
        "He already fought Nate, Robbie and RDA would be explosive", 
        "I doubt RDA is on 200. I think the two champions on the card will be Robbie and Conor. RDA will probably get a fight night in August or late July. Hopefully he waits for the winner Khabib/Ferguson though. (Hopefully Khabib)", 
        "But if it there's no Lawler at 200, then it sets up Nick vs Robbie at 201, and Woodley's death by stroke.", 
        "Dos Anjos is going to make so much money on ppv points if he fights at UFC 200, especially if Conor is fighting on the same card.", 
        "Everyone should stick to their respective weight classes.", 
        "I don't see Lawler happening especially since the line up is either Woodley, Condit, or the fabled GSP return. Diaz seems like a better fit for 200. ", 
        "RDA demolished Nate fairly recently.. kinda lame that he would ask for that fight. But I'm not sure if Khabib/Ferguson will be ready by then.", 
        "I'd pay for either fight or actually any combination of those three fighting.", 
        "Fuck it, make a triple threat match.", 
        "props to RDA. the fact hed be willing to fight lawler, he is another true warrior amongst fighters who hide behind weight classes. ", 
        "Not for the UFC but for the fighters, Dana is only friendly to you until things start going bad then he turns on you.", 
        "CM Punk", 
        "Shitting on gsp. They stopped letting him do press conferences after that", 
        "PVC v Rose\n\nConor v Diaz\n\nSage v Barberena\n\nRousey v Holm\n\nLidell v Rampage\n\nJones v Dr. Rockso", 
        "This could be a crazy war full of spinning shit or 3 rounds of them both standing still doing nothing. ", 
        "We're throwing spinning shit now?", 
        "Couldn't help but notice your username. Are you Robbie Lawler? <3 ", 
        "90% sure it's gonna be the latter.", 
        "The two most inconsistent fighters today going at it. What is not to like.  Hopefully we get some spinning matrix spinning shit from noth.", 
        "The fight is in Brazil.", 
        "Two black cats in the Matrix, I can't wait!\n", 
        "Silva will win by dodging Hall's high fives", 
        "Please be 5 rounds.", 
        "Already a title fight on the card, so no.", 
        "It's going to suck either way", 
        "Ok?", 
        "Ultimate Feinting Championship", 
        "This is going to be like a DBZ episode. Find out what happens in the next episode/round of Silva vs Hall", 
        "15 minutes of grimacing", 
        "Silva will be caught and tkoed.", 
        "This is my feeling as well... :(", 
        "\"I'm sorry, Anderson\" would be awesome. ", 
        "Scary thought. But in my mind, Silva is the perfect fight for Hall. Absolutely no threat of a takedown.", 
        "[I Responded to the wrong post] ", 
        "No threat of putting pressure on him either. Hall needs time and space to throw them ridiculous kicks, he's very beatable by pressure fighters which Silva is decidedly not", 
        "With his gimicky antics he will clown around again. Hall is a high level striker, i see that as a big problem in this fight. Obviously a Silva that is all about business would put Hall away.", 
        "It's going to be 15 minutes of stance switches and feints leaving all of us with the bluest balls you've ever seen. ", 
        "I have seen smurfs naked. Those were some bule balls", 
        "Comment of the month", 
        "Yea Hall won't put on enough pressure for Silva to do anything.  Although maybe Anderson will feel the pressure to put on a show and get crazy", 
        "I hate how right you may be", 
        "To be fair, all the balls I've seen have been relatively non-blue.", 
        "14 minutes of stance switches and feints and 3 seconds of a head kick from nowhere knocking Silva out.", 
        "Sorry Anderson", 
        "Hall will do a tumble run across the cage, do a double front flip, then nail Silva with a spinning roundhouse kick. Silva will be saved by the bell.", 
        "The last ten seconds of every round will be incredible though ", 
        "Hall will stand, Silva will win rounds by dancing.  Then Hall will be blamed afterwards for not being willing to engage with Silva.", 
        "My balls are ready.", 
        "Knees week. Arms are heavy.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/VtRIt3t.gifv", 
        "Until the judges award hall a decisom based off missing near 200 strikes.", 
        "Defense and evasive action isn't scored. He would have to land a lot more too. Like Bisping. ", 
        "If this is a bisping reference you didn't watch the fight very closely", 
        "It is and i did. You dont win a fight against a counter striker just by throwing a ton of baby shots.", 
        "Shhh. Don't bring up the relevant stats such as significant strikes when people are busy talking shit.", 
        "\"Significant\" - he had like 2 if that term was not thrown around so loosely ", 
        "He had like 108 if you knew the definition of \"significant.\"", 
        "I know the definition. ", 
        "I couldn't believe some people had that for Silva, I think if it wasn't for his name people would see how easily Bisping won that fight", 
        "One could make a case that round 3 was a 10-8, and he won round 5, making the fight a 47-47 draw. Some people are debating over round four, but I don't see it for Silva", 
        "10-8?\n\nBisping was still winning that round until the very end\n\nHe got dropped after the ref had called to stop the action, which is fine because Bisping wasn't defending anymore when he should have, but it won't count on the judges score cards. Silva won round 3 but in no way was that a 10-8, even if you wanted to count the drop", 
        "> He got dropped after the ref had called to stop the action\n\nThe ref never stopped the action.\n\n> Silva won round 3 but in no way was that a 10-8, even if you wanted to count the drop\n\nIf being knocked unconscious doesn't earn you a 10-8 we might as well not have them. Bisping was KOed. If it hadn't been the end of the round, he would have been finished as well. That gets a 10-8 in my book.", 
        "Bisping deserved the win, but it's crazy to not at least admit it was a close fight. Round 4 isn't as cut and dry as people make it out to be. ", 
        "Yep. People watched Silva dancing when he was losing & saw Silva dancing because he was winning. Because that's all he used to.\n\nAlso, judges make terrible decisions pretty regularly. Disagreeing with the judges & bitching about it has become fashionable.", 
        "Hall is way too content sometimes with throwing around 6 strikes a round", 
        "Silva is so dominant at running away!", 
        "At least the dancing should help him win points for octagon control. ", 
        "is normal", 
        "Thats so realistic I'm already depressed.", 
        "Therrrrre you have it, folks!  - Kenny Florian", 
        "During TUF Sonnen said Uriah had the talent to beat any middleweight, implying pretty clearly he meant \"even Anderson.\" (Maybe he said it outright, didn't imply it. I don't recall!) Now's his chance! \n\nBased on Hall's history of mixed results he should get the stoppage in about 23 seconds this fight, then go on to lose a decision to Court McGee. ", 
        "leeeeeeeeel", 
        "IIRC Chael refused to say Anderson's name out of disgust haha. ", 
        "I know he's a controversial figure but I miss Sonnen. He's the guy that got me into MMA.", 
        "He said something along the lines of \"You're a contender... I spent 5 years in that division, and you're a contender right now\"", 
        "Boy was he wrong. Guy lost to Rafael Natal and Robert Whittaker. ", 
        "That's quite humble of him. ", 
        "He pointed to the Silva banner when saying it", 
        "IIRC he said \"even that puke\" as he pointed to the Banner.", 
        "\"I'm not going to say that pukes name, but you can beat 'em all.\"", 
        "Pretty salty of him. Most weird things he used to say were hyping a fight, but by that time he had already lost twice, there was no Anderson fight on the horizon.", 
        "> Based on Hall's history of mixed results he should get the stoppage in about 23 seconds this fight, then go on to lose a decision to Court McGee.\n\nHaha", 
        "197 and 198 looking stacked as all hell. 200 coming up. What a time to be a fan.\n\nI have a feeling both fighters will be extremely tentative and it will end up being a boring fight. War Anderson!", 
        "At first i didnt really care about 198, but if they can actually get cyborg on, that honestly might be card of the year.", 
        "With all the good fights comings who is left to fight at 200. I think they will give George enough money to build a house out of bills to get him on the card. Jesus they could do a Matt Serra match-up with all the PR he has been getting on the Dana show. Do not tell me that doesn't make sense.", 
        "George vs a newly motivated BJ Penn. Winner gets dibs on the shuffleboard table.", 
        "Matt serra is probably well over 200 lbs lol and I dont think matt serra vs any heavyweight in the world is a fight any athletic commission would sanction lol", 
        "they sanctioned dada vs kimbo, all bets are off at this point", 
        "Matt Hughes rematch at Franklin-weight, fuck it.", 
        "Some athletic commission allowed Dada 5000, Ken Shamrock, and Royce Gracie to fight. Someone would sanction it.", 
        "For some reason the UFC is held to a higher standard, though.", 
        "Until CM Punk fights Mickey Gall with combined pro fights of 2.\n\nWhich still isn't announced...did Punk get a surgery yet? ", 
        "To be fair that isn't a tent pole fight meant to keep the lights on.  Shamrock/Kimbo is.", 
        "Hehe...Rousey died at 193, McGregor lost his trump card at 196.\n\nIf Jones loses to DC, you'll see Dana promote the heck out of CM Punk as he headlines 200.", 
        "Of course ... But he UFC's long term coffers don't depend on cm punk being a long term draw.  It's a freak show fight designed to lure in the dumb.\n\nBellator is relying on the freakshow as their growth mechanism ", 
        "Texas did and that could be the perfect place for a big card like 200. If you can make a card that can sell 80k+ tickets,  you can have it at jerry dome,  Cowboys stadium. ", 
        "Cowboy stadium would've been great for UFC 200. As would MSG. But they're going for the new T-Mobile Arena in Vegas.", 
        "\"Sorry Anderson\"", 
        "Remembering this nearly made me spit out my drink like a tv character ", 
        "What's the context?", 
        "When hall knocked out Adam Cella on TUF he let out an audible and sincere \"Sorry, Adam\" while Cella's ghost was still removed from his body on the mat.", 
        "[\"Sorry Adam\"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bj3xL9zoY1M)", 
        "Dude. Was so hyped for him at that stage. Chael was saying he had the skills to beat Anderson. Every win Gustalem got surprised me, but he kept winning then everyone started questioning whether Uriah was mean enough to fight. ", 
        "You could see it on their faces, some of the guys in there seriously thought about whether it was worth it or not.", 
        "If this happens to Anderson, I will cry. :(", 
        "His usual tempo is (T)KO then Decision, then TKO, then decision... He got decisioned last time... Sorry IHatePublicToilets.", 
        "Anderson is starting to look like that old martial artist master who test people to see if they are really good.\n\nIf Uriah beats him, ok, you are the real deal. But if he loses people will see him below the tier he is now. \n\n\"Cant even beat almost retired Silva\" will be thrown at him forever.", 
        "We know Uriah is the real deal.  You just can't put any money on him.", 
        "I always thought it was too risky on the nights he won, and then whenever he I did put money on him he lost. Every single time I've called his fights wrong lol.", 
        "This could easily be the best fight ever or the worst fight ever. Potential for amazing striking feats never before seen or two guys who won't pull the trigger.", 
        "Either way we'll have something to talk about.", 
        "It will boring for sure. Both of them have **zero** aggressive game. Boxing equivalent was Mayweather vs Marquez where the smaller man was forced to push the pace.", 
        "Uriah's hype train derailed 2 years ago.. Anderson has been mediocre in his return.  Super meh fight.", 
        "I hope they don't make this fight. Hall does horrible against people he's \"supposed to beat\" and pulls off a win against people he's \"supposed to lose to\". ", 
        "and since with this fight, nobody knows what he's supposed to do, maybe he'll just explode half-way through round one (NC)", 
        "This fight is gonna be a snoozer (in terms of Anderson fights) like the Diaz one and we'll see Andy win a decision\n\n**OR**\n\nUriah pulls off some Street Fighter 2 shit and knocks out grey beard Anderson. I love both these guys, it's a bit of a lose-lose imo", 
        "I don't know how to take that, I kinda feel like Hall should be the favorite here after beating Mous.  But I never feel comfortable betting on Hall, I always feel like he will choke which means I am often wrong.  But fuck me if every time I don't give up and decide to bet on Hall he chokes.  ", 
        "Eh, he'd be the favorite if he really looked like a better fighter than Mous. I thought Mous was dominating the fight and Hall landed one shot that changed the fight. I think 9 times out of 10 Mous wins. ", 
        "I personally thought Mous was going to just run through Hall, I even posted it several times so I could look stupid later.  I'd probably pick Mous again because I'm a fan, and like I said I have no faith in Hall.  But he still won, and he certainly hits harder than Bisping who was able to wobble or floor Silva multiple times in the fight.  If hall doesn't beat himself with the mystique of fighting \"The Greatest Fighter of all time\" he should win. ", 
        "Yeah, it should be an interesting fight. Matching up prospects with Silva now kind of gives me mixed feelings. It will certainly be a spectacle. But will it give us any better of an idea of where Hall sits in the division? I'm not sure it will. ", 
        "Which would you say is the case for this fight? In terms of skills I give it to Silva but Hall is much more of a physical specimen, his power plays a big role considering Anderson's chin is starting to represent his age", 
        "Not the original comment poster, but I have a feeling that Hall is probably going to pull off a crazy win here. His counter right is crazy good, and is equally powerful while being aggressive. Silva has the tendency to keep his chin up and drop his hands within striking range of an experienced striker like Hall. I think Hall will be able to land one of his straight punches while Anderson is trying to pressure him and fake him out. I would say Hall by KO in round 2 if I *had* to make a prediction.\n\nBut really, I have no clue who wins this. If Anderson's reflexes are still all there, and they kind of showed in the Bisping fight, he could probably dodge a Hall cross and just smash him with a counter. I would not be putting any bets on this fight at all.", 
        "Moussasi has one of the best chins in MMA, much better than Andersons at the time Uriah put him away. I think Uriah is the more dangerous fighter and I know that sounds fucking crazy. High risk little reward for Anderson.", 
        "Is it all that crazy? Anderson hasn't won a fight since 2012.", 
        "Yeah, also he got dropped by Bisping in that fight and got hit a lot. Someone faster and much more powerful is probably going to hit Silva more than he can take. I wouldn't be surprised by Hall winning at all, but I similarly wouldn't be surprised by Silva winning if he decides to actually fucking punch this time. ", 
        "That's never been Silvas style and it never will be. Silvas record has been irreparably damaged by these last few years, and his failed drug test. Had he stopped fighting after losing to Chris the first, or even second time he would have been fine. But because he kept fighting, and got popped he will go down as a good fighter, but not one of the greats.", 
        "He'll easily go down as the #1 MW of all time & one of the top 5 mma fighters of all time. ", 
        "Anyone who saw Anderson in his prime would disagree. Most long time fans have leveled with the fact that everyone was probably doping untill very recently.", 
        "Are you insane? Prime Anderson is still always brought up when people talk about who the GOAT is.", 
        "Anderson always said his dream fight would be against his clone. Guess this is the best the UFC could do at honoring that wish before he retires. ", 
        "I really wish Anderson would have retired after the leg break", 
        "I legitimately buy into the whole \"fighting fan\" thing when it comes to Anderson.\n\nI can't think of any reason why he would put himself through so much shit at his age if it wasn't for pure love for what he does.", 
        "The fight contract better include a stipulation where both fighters must throw a certain amount of spinning shit.", 
        "I keep thinking Hall has the power to KO Anderson but not the timing, then I remember that jump spin kick KO off mousasi... Damn. ", 
        "Tbh that was supposed to be a body kick but Gegard chose a bad time to duck down.", 
        "Alright...Who in the hell are they going to have at 200 then? Between 197, 198, 199, and all of the fight nights in between seem like they have almost every huge fight RIGHT before the \"Biggest MMA event of all time\". \n\nI plan on attending 200, and I'm starting to get nervous...", 
        "I would much rather see Anderson fight in his home at a huge stadium than Vegas for the upteenth time.", 
        "Solid point. I'm sure that's what he was pushing for as well. ", 
        "Velasquez vs Browne\n\nMcGregor vs Aldo or Edgar\n\nGSP vs Diaz \n\nJones vs Rumble\n\nRDA vs Khabib\n\nCM Punk vs Gall\n\nPossible Rousey comeback? \n\nCondit vs Hendricks \n\nPage and Sage \n\nThere's lots of possible options \n\n", 
        "> Page vs Sage\n\nSign me up!", 
        "> GSP vs Diaz\n\nCan we not ? please ?\n\nNate got decimated by RDA, he won't be doing any better against the goat welterweight that scammed the world and hump-a-dumped the elder Diaz.\n\n", 
        "Who cares? Both Nate and GSP want the fight and it will make a shitload of money. GSP has been out for a while now too. Obviously Nate will be a massive underdog but I wouldn't completely count him out. ", 
        "Nate would get ragdolled and the hype would be derailed in a 25 minute humping session.\n\nAll the momentum he gained from the McGregor fight would be flushed down the toilet.", 
        "What would you do with him then? He only has a few sensible options available and he would be a big underdog in most of them. What's the point of having hype behind diaz if you're not gonna make him fight the best?", 
        "> RDA vs Khabib\n\nKhabib has said we wont fight during Ramadan, so he can't fight at 200", 
        "> McGregor vs Aldo or Edgar\n\nMcGregor vs Aldo vs Edgar, triplethreat main event!", 
        "With Nate Diaz as special guest referee!", 
        "After seeing Nate commentate on street fights I approve of this.", 
        "Holy shit, this will be insane. When I first saw Uriah fight I saw a similarity in him and Silva, two very awesome fighting styles are gonna collide if this happens. ", 
        ">When I first saw Uriah fight I saw a similarity in him and Silva\n\nthey're both bald headed and black?", 
        "They're different people!?!", 
        "Don't be ridiculous. Clearly it's just one guy trying to cash in two of those sweet reebok paychecks.", 
        "This is kind of a weird fight to make. On one hand, at their best Anderson Silva and Uriah Hall are two of the fastest, and most entertaining fighters in the division. On the other hand, both tend to be a bit gun shy (Anderson more recently in his career), so this fight might end up being a bit boring. Either way if it's true I'm excited to see how it plays out.", 
        "If it isn't a heartbreaking knockout of The GOAT than it will be a case of neither fighter pulling the trigger.", 
        "Jon Jones isn't in this fight though.", 
        "You misspelled Dada5burger.", 
        "If Uriah comes out to this fight meek and hesitant as all hell, there is no hope for his career ", 
        "Ehh why not Shogun x Anderson? Hall doesn't make much sense, it'll probably be 3 rounds of feints.\n\nAnderson got hurt by Bisping multiple times, not sure the Anderson of old is ever coming back. ", 
        "Would  Bisping re-match be a good option? I like Shogun, too. Rampage would have been a god one also! Anyone but Mousasi.", 
        "The ufc knows that, and a highlight reel ko from Hall would be just the boost he needs to get back in people's minds", 
        "The fights in Brazil, they want to retain Brazilian fans/market not kill it off. ", 
        "Ehhhhh sure why not?", 
        "I love that Silva's still looking to fight competitively and not just looking for big name/money fights", 
        "Holy shit! Whata fucking awesome fight this would be", 
        "Good match on paper, but won't be surprised to see it be boring and frustrating as fuck to watch.", 
        "I think Hall will throw some ridiculous spinning shit he isn't actually trying to land and Anderson will break his neck with a counter. ", 
        "High potential for highlight reel KO, or absolutely no highlights.", 
        "This has potential to be fucking amazing or be the most frustrating 5 round staredown ever. Either way I'm totally in love with this matchup.", 
        "Silva will still outstrike Hall", 
        "Holy shit, so many good fights on this card. ", 
        "I want Silva to win, since I've been a hardcore fan I've never seen him win live. That's why I lost my shit when he hit Bisping with the flying knee, I wanted to see Anderson win. The fight went on though, but I was really happy for Michael at the end.\n\nIf Anderson won this fight by highlight reel KO I would be really happy, but I don't know if that will happen. Hall has some of the most devastating strikes out of anyone in the Middleweight division. One counter right straight from him could end anybody's night, and if you can avoid that you still have to worry about spinning shit. I think Anderson will try to feint and Uriah will panic, throw a lot of weight into a counter right, and land it really fucking hard.\n\nI absolutely love Hall though, and would be fine if either won actually. I just want this to be a not shitty fight, and it really could be one.", 
        "I was hoping the Bisping fight would be the last we'd see of him. He thought he won despite not fighting half the time so I expect him to try the same stuff again", 
        "Dope.", 
        "this is a perfect fight for Silva, Hall, and the UFC. ", 
        "Immediately hard", 
        "This is the fight I had said should be done and got downvoted to hell.", 
        "Will see the fight of the century or a Silva Cote fight again...", 
        "Anderson likes countering but Uriah is more dangerous when he is settled in and not being pressured. Very exciting stylistic match up. Hope it get's official.", 
        "If only On-Point-Uriah will show up.\n", 
        "I think Hall will knock silva out. This is a badddd fight. Damn.", 
        "Horrible matchup for Anderson. ", 
        "I am happy Anderson got on the card at all. You can put me in the \"this fight will probably suck camp\" but at last it isn't close to the main event and is on what is already a seriously stacked card.", 
        "Dana will stop at nothing to get Uriah Hall over, even if it means sacrificing Anderson Silva. ", 
        "This matchup makes no sense whatsoever", 
        "Broken Legend vs over hyped headcase ... I'm in. ", 
        "[**@sherdogdotcom**](https://twitter.com/sherdogdotcom):\n>[2016-03-17 02:32:40 UTC](https://twitter.com/sherdogdotcom/status/710292739330428929)\n\n>Anderson Silva vs. Uriah Hall in Works for UFC 198 in Curitiba [*sherdog.com*](http://www.sherdog.com/news/news/Anderson-Silva-vs-Uriah-Hall-in-Works-for-UFC-198-in-Curitiba-102081) [*pic.twitter.com*](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cdt3bUfUEAArZmC.jpg) [^[Imgur]](http://i.imgur.com/jx7YbQO.jpg)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4ar54a%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "That would be fucking insane. Or Anderson Jackson dancing around an uncomfortable Uriah Hall. ", 
        "Uriah always performs against big names.  He chokes when hes the favorite.  I see Silva getting KOd", 
        "Lets go Uriah, im in need of a good motivating post fight speech", 
        "This can be a launch point for both fighters, one to a lasting career the latter would get a few more respectable fights. Either way im down. I was giddy as a school girl when he landed that jumping knee. Wife though someone died. Can we consider that a tune up fight for Anderson, a welcoming to an era where no man fears him any more.", 
        "Hall's going to feel bad and not engage", 
        "People are actually excited for this, 2 counter punchers who have a problem pulling the trigger. Worse than Machida vs Henderson. ", 
        "I've wanted to see this fight since Chael brought it up on TUF. Both guys have lost hype since then but I'd still love to see it. ", 
        "I like silva but hall?  probably won't watch\n", 
        "This is the UFC's own WWF Attitude Era right here.   I'm loving it!", 
        "Close to 200, I bet both of these guys will be used for fill ins if there are injuries, or the match will move to 200 if needed. ", 
        "They could pass for father and son, from that pic.", 
        "When I first saw Hall on TUF, I thought I'd see him fight Silva someday.  I assumed it would be for the title though.", 
        "Why Hall though?? seems outta the blue", 
        "Put him against Mousasi or someone other than Hall.  This is an awful matchup considering both of their fighting styles.", 
        "Was just thinking that.  Great fight on paper based purely on the potential of ninja shit.  Hope one of them says f-it and plays the part of the bull.", 
        "Werdum, Jacare, Belfort, Demian, Anderson, lil Nog, maybe Cyborg. My brazilian boner is ready", 
        "I wonder who fights the Moose now.", 
        "Which uriah wants to show up ", 
        "I think that the thoroughbred striker Anderson Silva, will get the best out of Urijah Hall. Yes sir.", 
        "good fight", 
        "fuck, this will be an amazing fight, but I really wanted to see Moose get Silva =/", 
        "silva by matrix hacking", 
        "oh no....anderson is getting knocked out. ", 
        "Combate said the fight was verbally confirmed, but the UFC didnt announced just yet. No way Silva will not fight in his home town.\n", 
        "I would be surprised if Anderson took this fight. Hall is a dangerous dude that not many casuals know... he just doesn't have much to gain from it", 
        "Anderson really wants to fight in this Curitiba card. He will take anyone to fight there i believe.", 
        "Spinning shit vs. GOAT shit", 
        "Damn I was kinda hoping Anderson would get to fuck up Tim Kennedy but this could be interesting ", 
        "There is no way this will be an exciting fight except when Silva tries to headhunt. ", 
        "This is a fight I've been thinking of since I first saw Uriah Hall and his highlight reel KO on TUF.   \n\nWhy doesn't Robert Whittaker get a fight with Anderson Silva?   \n\nIt just feels like Uriah Hall is getting a boost without earning it.  ", 
        "Anderson seems more worried about trying crazing exciting shit than winning the fight by points. Could turn out into a spetacular ko or little action fight i guess.\n\nThe fact that it is in Curitiba might take him back a little bit to his chute boxe roots tho, who knows, he certainly always put on a show when he fought in Brazil for the ufc.", 
        "Hall by spinning back kick to the body. Mark my words.", 
        "This is not the same in his prime Anderson and Hall is super dangerous if there is no threat of a takedown. I personally feel bad saying this but I have Hall by knockout.", 
        "Been hoping they would make this fight for a while, really hope Uriah can put it together and be consistent rather than alternating between being a destroyer of worlds and a crumbling apple pie", 
        "Anderson... Why?", 
        "Well this is basically do or die for Anderson at this point.", 
        "i loved anderson silva as the champion, but in a way, i am kind of excited of the different matchups that are available now that he is trying to climb the ranks again. This is one of the matchups i always thought would be exciting.", 
        "Really? I mean this has some background with TUF and all Chael saying Urijah could easily beat Anderson.. But Chael says alot. And seriously both have problems pulling the trigger and they are both counterpunchers. I expect this to be a decision win for Anderson or if Urijah hits him on the button Anderson might go down.. But I dont understand how people are so excited about this. I d prefer Anderson vs Tim Kennedy that would be a fucking great fight!", 
        "Don't like the matchup at all. Aside from the possibility of the fight being uneventful, if Hall lands a clean shot Anderson is going down and it's goinf to be ugly. What kind of a monster watches Silva get dropped twice by Bisping and thinks \"let's match him up with the only man to stop Gegard Mousasi with strikes, you know the guy got famous by sending a man to the hospital with one of the most devastating kicks in MMA history.\"", 
        "WHAT EVEN IS THIS CARD!!!!!", 
        "My erection can only get so hard...", 
        "This is either going to be a war, or completely shitty. ", 
        "I love the way the UFC is just making these match-ups that the fans want to see. They have been good for making great fights in the last few years.", 
        " #wouldwatch", 
        "Good fight, It's not like they'll just stare at each other for 15 minutes or anything.", 
        "how the mighty has fallen...", 
        "Uriah Hall should fight Erick Silva. Either the best fight ever, the worst fight ever, or the most rage inducing fight ever.", 
        "For the UFC Chronic Disappointment Despite Natural Talent-weight Title.", 
        "I remember walking with Uriah down the street and him talking about this fight. He said he only would need 2 years to get ready for him. Though this was 6 years ago..\n\nRegardless im glad to see this fight if it happens for him", 
        "This will be the friendly version of Silva-Diaz. Count on it. ", 
        "I read this as Uriah Faber and was REALLY confused.", 
        "I miss the days of Hall KOing Adam Cella. ", 
        "Uriah kill KO him. Im a huge anderson fan but if he cant take shots from bisping he isnt going to take them from Hall who is a stronger and faster striker. that or they both stare at each other while feinting for 3 rounds.", 
        "What is Silva doing? He needs to retire. He's should just give out shirts that read \"I beat The Spider Silva at 40 years old. Now give me a bigger fight.\"", 
        "That should be 200", 
        "Hall by murder :)", 
        "This is going to be really hot, or very cold fight. ", 
        "Why wouldn't they save that for 200?", 
        "Having a fight on a huge stadium show in Andersons home town is way bigger deal to him than just fighting in Vegas again. \n", 
        "Ah makes sense", 
        "3 Round of counter puncher refusing to start is my bet. Snooze ZZZzzZZ. ", 
        "Bold prediction first round ko via headkick which retires Anderson", 
        "Wow I don't care at all lol. ", 
        "I'd prefer to see Shogun vs Anderson and Uriah vs the dude Shogun is fighting.", 
        "Lose-lose for Silva, tbh", 
        "Go ahead and make the fight in Jamaica...Hall gets the win!", 
        "Was Vs Could have", 
        "This is excellent matchmaking...", 
        "What did Anderson do to deserve this!!!!!! LEAVE ANDERSON ALONE!!!!!!!!", 
        "I'd rather have seen Anderson vs Kennedy or Mousasi. This could be good though. Hall is quick as fuck and tends to show up in difficult matchups. He could give Anderson some trouble.", 
        "I get that Anderson could be the GOAT and everyhing, but he honnestly killed the show in his last couple of fights. His opponents figured him out  and his fights are since not nearly as exciting as they were before his losses against Weidman.", 
        "Uriah Hall by TKO.\n\nSilva got dropped by Michael Bisping... TWICE. Michael Bisping! Bisping hit a guy with his car and he didn't go down, that's how infrequently it happens.\n\nEven if Silva wins most of the exchanges, when Hall catches him that will likely be it.", 
        "Bad matchup. Counter striker vs a guy who can't consistently pull the trigger.", 
        "This will be amazingggg, 2 favorite strikers of all time (and Cub Swanson)", 
        "Would be nice if Anderson fought Mousasi", 
        "I'd rather him fight Bisping, to be honest.", 
        "RIP Hall.", 
        "Uriah Hall is gonna get worked. Anderson I believe is gonna show up and fight.", 
        "Boring!!!", 
        "I swear to god, if Silva can't win this fight I'll never watch another one of his fights again.\n\n", 
        "Happy St. Patrick's Day to all our Irish homies and whoever else gives a fuck! ", 
        "Whomever*", 
        "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypercorrection", 
        "Interesting concept. It doesnt really apply to what im saying though. Who is a subject, whom is an object, and in the sentence the guy was (incorrectly) using \"whoever\" as an object. Whenever its the object of a preposition, you have to use whomever, i.e. against whomever, for whomever, to whomever, through whomever, behind whomever, etc", 
        "Isn't the who(m)ever introducing a dependant clause? In which case I think it would have to be \"whoever\".\n", 
        "Can you explain why 'whomever' should be used in this case?", 
        "It shouldn't, he's wrong. ", 
        "Okay, then can you explain why not?", 
        "The guy with the throwaway has an interesting take on the issue here, but I'm sorry to say he is mistaken. He/who vs him/whom is correct, but here you have to know about prepositions... \"to\" is a preposition. You must always use an object with prepositions. Who is a subject, whom is an object. There is one additional point of confusion here because the sentence has the structure \"to X and whoever\". It should be very easy to see that it should be \"to whomever\" and not \"to whoever\", so putting the \"and X\" between that and the preposition does slightly obscure what's really going on.", 
        "Okay, sure. Instead of whoever else, substitute he/she. Instead of whomever else, substitute him/her. \n\nWhich is correct, \"him gives a fuck\" or \"he gives a fuck\"? There you go, an easy tool to remember which one to use. ", 
        "That's an easy way to remember. Thank you!", 
        "No worries! That also works in places where you're using things \"He and I\"/ \"Him and I\", that sort of stuff! Happy to help!", 
        "L\u00e1 Fh\u00e9ile P\u00e1draig sona daoibh", 
        "Agus tu freisin, mo chara.", 
        "I'll have the Angus beef too, ma cherie ", 
        "WHAT DID YOU CALL MY MOTHER?!", 
        "St Patricks Day is my 2nd favorite holiday, just behind 4/20", 
        "4th of July 4-20 Christmas Thanksgiving St Patrick's day in that order..", 
        "I'll smoke a bowl to that, Cheers", 
        "Halloween & Thanksgiving >.", 
        "I've come to love Thanksgiving day. Living abroad I have two American friends who don't really seem to like each other but they are both part of the \"group\". They both want to hold the Thanksgiving Dinner and neither will budge on who gets to host it - so they both host on different days (usually the Saturday before and the day itself). Every year the food gets better and better as they are trying to outdo each other. \n \n\n", 
        "Sounds like a pretty sweet deal. ", 
        "If you ever go to Ireland, I really really really recommended the weekend before Christmas. The atmosphere is fantastic, everyone has just gotten paid, the pubs are warm,  the streets are cold and it's busiest weekend of the year (the steets are packed with happy happy people wearing crazy Xmas jumpers). ", 
        "Ireland is definitely on the bucket list. Thanks for the suggestion. ", 
        "When living abroad, Xmas in Ireland is something really special to go home to. Atmosphere everywhere is just incredible. Pure happiness.", 
        "Thanksgiving really is the best holiday.  Great food and football all day while laying on the couch.  Food and lounging around doing nothing are two of my favorite things.", 
        "Don't forget day drinking.", 
        "It's kind of like our Christmas. Christmas Eve down in the local pub with everyone you know, Christmas day wake up with a hangover, greet friends and family and start tucking into some good holiday beers while sharing presents before eating a stupid amount of food - followed by getting good and sloshed before falling into a coma. Followed by St. Stephens day where we go to horse racing, watch the football and then go out on a massive bender (I really recommend getting a hotel in Dublin for this). ", 
        "Everything in this sentence is a recipe for me hating you.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "But Paddy is the proper way to shorten Patrick (from the Irish P\u00e1draig). Patty is a woman's name or ground meat in a bun.", 
        "I want to hug them - that's the correct way to say it - it's those fucker's who insist on calling it St. Patty's Day.... Who the fuck is Saint Patricia? \n\n**Edit:** For clarification Paddy is short for Patrick and Patty is short for Patricia \n", 
        "St. Padrick's Day", 
        "His name was Patricius. He was a Roman Britain. ", 
        "OK.... Not sure what that has to do with anglicised name... Which is Patrick. ", 
        "Well St Patty is St Patricius. His actual name.", 
        "Ah that's your point. Well Patrick is P\u00e1draig in Irish, which is where the diminutive \"Paddy\"  comes from. So the formal name of the celebration is St. Patrick's Day and the informal is St Paddy's Day. ", 
        "I bet you drink yourself silly tonight. Hypocrites...smh", 
        "Bell end", 
        "One holiday where you are the most drunk you'll be all year and the other 'holiday' where you're the most high you'll be all year.\n\nEither you're a former fuck up who's now sober but hates it, or you hate trendy dipshits.  Or both.", 
        "I hate obnoxious holidays based around the glorification of getting \"fucked up\". Never been an addict, alcohol is extremely overrated and I never even bothered with weed.", 
        "People seem to always need an excuse to get fucked up.", 
        "Is Friday a reason? ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "[removed]", 
        "> alcohol is extremely overrated\n\nYou just haven't drank enough or drank with the right people. ", 
        "Can't tell if joking or not", 
        "A little from Column A and a little from Column B. Only joking, I love drinking but it's not for everyone. \n\nI enjoy how a few beers with a few good friends is very enjoyable but I would preface this with that:\n\na) I'm Irish\n\nb) I prefer doing this with my Irish friends or people who have spent time in Ireland/UK \n\nThe reason being out drinking culture is very different to that of the states or Aus/NZ **(read different, not better)**. \n\nWe drink in the same Ozzie's **(not all by the way)** go for flat whites in cafe's and my american friends usually like going to trendy bars for a few beers because they want pick up chicks at the same time - I hate those bars! \n\nBut hey man, as I said - it's not for everyone and I completely understand that people don't like the taste/sensation/company that comes with alcohol. ", 
        "Yeah I'm an American and I kind of like both. When I was single I liked going out and trying to pick up chicks, now that I'm in a serious relationship if I do go out its usually to this little dive called Quincy's just to catch up with friends. I have no problem with either I just hate when we go to Quincy's where I'm a regular and are of my dumber friends treat it like it's a club and hit on anything that walks(sometimes they dont even walk, but that's a story for a much different time).", 
        "It's actually much more sophisticated that way -  in Ireland the \"lads\" head to some boozer, the girls go to a trendy cocktail bar and we all meet up (usually hammered) at the agreed club. ", 
        "He's definitely doing it wrong.", 
        "So you're bashing what you don't even know. ", 
        "I don't need to smoke weed to \"know\" it.", 
        "I used to think that way, then I turned 18 and decided to maybe try some shit. It's been fun so far...", 
        "> It's been fun so far...\n\nWhen I turned 18 I also started getting drunk and tried a few drugs. It was all a waste of time and none of it was particularly amazing, looking back. \n\nBelieve it or not, getting drunk and high and acting like an idiot doesn't somehow make you \"mature\".", 
        "I don't even get drunk, man. Just different strokes.", 
        "Found the narc. ", 
        "God damn you're no fun. ", 
        "Good argument dude", 
        "Weed is awesome.  But not as good as lsd, if you have never experienced an lsd trip then you haven't experienced life", 
        "Alright it's pretty stupid to say you're no fun because of your choice in sobriety. That's actually really good man. But to hate on other people because they choose to enjoy life their own way (ways which can be harmless) especially after not experiencing what they have, is pretty arrogant and stupid.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "> Pi Day is my 2nd favorite holiday, just behind May the Fourth\n\n", 
        "Quit being a tightwad.", 
        "It's all about 7/10", 
        "Celebrating both today, son! \n\n*Not surprised, motherfucker!*", 
        "It takes a lot of energy to be a shamrock star.", 
        "\"St. Paddy-esque is Dillishaw in his snaking out of team alpha male, Joe.\"-Mike Goldberg\n\nEdit-me no spell good.", 
        ">St. Paddy-esque", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "just looking out for you homie \ud83d\udc4d", 
        "you know on further review, I apologize,  that is good looking out bro. ", 
        "Remember when Marcus Davis was one of UFC's draws in Ireland? I don't know how accurate it is but wikipedia says Connor was at UFC 93, and it was one of his inspirations to become a fighter. Time flies!", 
        "Dude Palhares was on that card. I was there and didn't realise what I was even watching until years later", 
        "I think there's a pic of that", 
        "Dennis Siver was on the undercard that night too. Won with a spinning back kick. Kind of cool that Conor was a fan in the crowd watching this guy fight and a few years later he was headlining a show with him in front of millions of people.", 
        "Happy St. Patrick's day to all our international MMA fans. It's funny that if Paddy was around today Conor would probably give him shit for switching camps from Wales to Ireland. \"Maybe you're the snake, maybe yous are all snakes!\"", 
        "Well he was captured and brought to Ireland by pirates, so didnt really have a say in the matter.", 
        "http://imgur.com/RzuOOGP", 
        "Today we commemorate Conor driving TJ out of TAM ", 
        "Needs more Holohan.", 
        "It's funny, as I typed in /r/mma into the browser I was thinking of St Patrick's day and what Irish fighters there could even be in the UFC, was thinking of Marcus Davis... \n\nTotally forgot about Conor.", 
        "It takes a lot of energy to be more of these.", 
        "I plan on celebrating by going out and talking a bunch of shit and then passing out after the second pint.", 
        "Don't forget the other famous Irish fighter, Lucky Patrick!\nhttp://lolmma.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/mayhem-miller-lucky-patrick.jpg\n\n", 
        "It's the mark of a true fan to support your fighter in hard times and not just when he is winning. Happy St. Patricks day Conor. You have changed my life and the lives of your countrymen. ", 
        "I really hope he didn't. That would be sad. Your making me sad. ", 
        "> Your making me sad\n\n*you're", 
        "Why? People take inspiration from all kinds of places.", 
        "What a cuck.", 
        "Before Conor that's where I was heading. Now I can stand up for myself. ", 
        "B.C. = before conor", 
        "have some self respect.", 
        "Bum life.", 
        "as much as im not a fan of conor nuthuggers (the bad kind) i dont see anything wrong with taking inspiration from a guy that worked (and talked) his way to where he is now. he didnt just roll out of bed with a good skillset. thats grinding in some dusty, scummy gym in some shithole town of ireland probably 5-6 nights a week while no one had ever heard his name. fighting in organizations no one gave a fuck about. but he still got up and went to the gym every day/night and put in hard work. people get inspired by all sorts of people and theres nothing wrong with being inspired by what conors done with a good set of skills and some decent wit. \n\ni also think theres something to be said for people of ireland in general. ireland isnt exactly center stage at many things in this world, aside from maybe galssings at pubs. and their country has a pretty mixed past, like most. theres nothing wrong with one of their own giving them some motivation and inspiration to not settle ", 
        "Exactly. Walk into a Secondary school classroom in Dublin today and EVERY boy has Conor's haircut, sunglass and beard. He's inspired a generation. ", 
        "HTML5 Video \n\n\n[Desktop version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/A59jdeL/) (26.53%). \n\n\n[Mobile version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/A59jdeL/?minified=true) (4.99%). \n\n\n----------------------------------- \n\n\n^[info](http://offsided.com/about_bots/) ^| ^[feedback](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=wonglik) ^| [^Upload](http://offsided.com/upload/)\n\n", 
        "This guy has a huge wingspan.", 
        "There needs to be more of these. Him puching aldo and shamrocks shoot everywhere. Conor tapping to Nate diaz and shamrocks shoot everywhere ect...", 
        "[Happy St. Patrick's Day indeed...](https://giant.gfycat.com/ShoddyRaggedIriomotecat.gif)", 
        "Look at how Conor took those punches! He lost so well!", 
        "*first image is of Diaz' bleeding and battered mug*\n\n> http://www.reactiongifs.com/r/rfz0hP0.gif", 
        "what", 
        "that's what I wanted to type when you linked that to me yesterday but here we are now, debating it", 
        "I have no clue what point you're trying to make", 
        "You're kind of sad lol ", 
        "\ud83d\ude01", 
        "Today I bring shame upon myself and all of my family. ", 
        "Belt vs Belt!\n\n&nbsp;\n\nRDA holds the key to 155.\n\nNate holds the McGregor Championship Belt.\n\n&nbsp;\n\nNever before have two belts been on the line in the same fight!", 
        "They can never be on the line at the same time. They both are different weight belts.  Someone is going to lose a belt, and gain nothing if he wins while the other gets both the belts if he wins, and loses nothing if he loses. \n\n You also could be fooling around, and I am thinking to much into this. ", 
        "Interesting note, if you follow the \"mcgregor belt\" from his first loss the belt is now held by One fc champ Bibiano Fernandes", 
        "If only Nate would show up to his next fight with some knock off belt with McGregor's face on.", 
        "I kninda wish they would do an actual belt vs belt and put RDA vs. Lawler together.\n\nRDA is a pretty big LW and has been looking like a straight up monster recently, same with Lawler, and with both divisions void of a clear contender (LW: Alvarez, Diaz, or the Khabib/Ferguson winner) + (WW: Condit, Rory, Wonderboy, Mia, Woodley, a possible GSP return, or apparently Nate Diaz) it seems like a great time to put it together especially it being UFC 200 and all.", 
        "Nate should make a mock belt up and carry it around with him.", 
        "Reminds me of the Million Dollar Belt from old school WWF", 
        "You're forgetting the 3rd belt that's on the line, the king of free tv belt. I generally like the Diaz brothers because when you pair their fighting styles with the right opponent it's usually an exciting fight but RDA is not one of those opponents! This will be a 50-45 wrestle fuck UD. RDA is one of the worst possible stylistic matchups for Nate, Kabib might be the only 155er that would be worse. I want Pettis vs Nate!", 
        "It never actually occurred to me before that Nate is the McGregorweight champion. That means the next McGregorweight fight Conor has won't be for the belt. :\\", 
        "I know I'm going to be following the title.\n\nI can't wait for the day the lineal McGregorweight Title is unified with Conor himself.", 
        "Nants Ingonyama.", 
        "> Never before have two belts been on the line in the same fight!\n\nWell, in boxing there are always six belts on the line...", 
        "Mcgreggor should form his own red panty division. one only gets invited if they put on a spectacular performance and have sweet one liners. for example after pettis did the showtime kick he would get a letter asking him to join the division enclosed with red panties and a fat cigar. once in the division you must climb the ranks to earn a fight with the notorious one. instead of a belt there is a golden crown worth 10 mil", 
        "As a WWE fan, I love stupid fights and stipulations. It would be cool for Showtime Kick Pettis, Eight-Second Knee Aldo, Don't Be Scared Homie Diaz, Blood Licking Penn, Wheel Kick Barboza, Upset GSP Serra, Twister Korean Zombie and Upkick Bendo in a tournament for the Red Panty Championship. ", 
        "What, no \"Never been in a boring fighter Joe Lauzon\"?  ", 
        "McGregor vs. Lauzon is a fight I never know I wanted. ", 
        "Or better yet, a Ladder Match for a Money in the bank contract for any Title Shot of there choosing.", 
        "I would fucking love that in MMA. ", 
        "The Mcgregorweight Title: where the only weight that matters is the weight of them checks.", 
        "Would be hilarious if he had a McGregor belt made to bring to the next  fight conference that he does.", 
        "Imagine if it's just a paper cutout of a belt with macaroni sticked on. ", 
        "[Has that chair been dipped in gold?](http://i.imgur.com/xuiXh3B.png)", 
        "Damson.jpg", 
        "The mcgregor belt needs to be a thing...forever. Diaz is a champ to me.", 
        "But if you fight a guy who won a belt in a division that you can never cut to, can you really claim to be a champ?", 
        "Nate is the Featherweight champ right now. Belt vs belt sounds good. ", 
        "The Conorweight championship belt is really a paper crown from the local Burger King", 
        "Still better than Cormier's paper belt.", 
        "Gott damn son.  You sure YOU  don't want to try selling fights?  Sounds like you'd be good at it.", 
        "Damn dude, ouch.", 
        "I really hate this. Cormier beat both Rampage and Gus while Jones was out. If Jones had broken his leg in the accident and decided not to come back for a few years the result would be the same. \n\nHe might not be champ after Jones but there's a massive difference between Cormier and someone with a paper belt.", 
        "He didn't beat the champ to get the belt. He has the belt on paper, but in reality we all know who the real champ is. ", 
        "Savage.", 
        "Cleavage", 
        "Love this idea. Just like the \"NFL Title Belt.\" You hold it only if you beat the last person to have it, regardless of regular game, playoff or superbowl.\n\nhttp://imgur.com/afMzxcX\n", 
        "\"King of the UFC\" (Queen?)...\n\nNate should get a strap made, spraypaint 209 on it, and bring it to the pressers.", 
        "That ain't the way of the 209. ", 
        "If memory serves me right, hockey use to be this way. You could challenge the team to a championship match with the winner becoming the holder of the title. This tradition still continues with why a team may win the championship but never keep the Stanley Cup.\n\nCombat sports pretty much do the same thing with the P4P title, but I like how MMA pretty much keeps it simple with the organizations being the ones who control the belts. Boxing has so much bureaucracy behind their belt system that it pretty much is as relevant as a pro wrestling belt half the time. After the Pride merger, UFC seems pretty much legit in its claim as the premier MMA title against other promotions. ", 
        "I hope the McGregor belt is followed for the rest of UFC's days. Come on guys, let's do this!", 
        "Agreed the mcgregor belt could become a sort after title for many generations.", 
        "[kinda like fedor's WAMMA belt? ](http://www.mmafighting.com/2010/07/08/so-whatever-became-of-fedor-emelianenkos-wamma-belt-anyway)", 
        "It's gonna be fun to track the lineal McGregor champ :)", 
        "I agree, my thing is I want it to be for fighters that will take a fight at any weight class.\n", 
        "Just as a fun piece of trivia to add to the joke- \n\nHendo and Rampage actually did put two belts on the line in the same fight to unify the Pride and UFC ~205lb championships at UFC 75. It's an underrated fight from when they were both near their primes and the only time two really meaningful titles went up against each other that I can remember. Lot's of clinch work, but it was the active, brutal, old school Couture style dirty boxing kind. ", 
        "Don't forget about Penn GSP II", 
        "Damn you are right-I did forget that one for sure.", 
        "Then he fought Anderson Silva putting his Pride belt on the line against the UFCs middleweight belt. ", 
        "Also his next fight with Anderson Silva.", 
        "Great fight, I think that probably was the best Rampage and Hendo we have ever seen. They were both still well rounded in terms of using their grappling as well as the striking.", 
        "One of my favorite championship fights ever.\n\nBoth fighters were completely done and exhausted at the end of it.", 
        "i was amazed by their cardio.  both guys went pretty hard for 5 rounds.  lots of exhausting grappling.", 
        "Yeah, I think it was prime for both of them, physically and motivationally.", 
        "He also had his pride \"welterweight\" title on the line against Anderson.", 
        "So... anderson is Pride welterweight champ? Or is it Rockhold now? ", 
        "The Welterweight limit in Pride was 183 pounds, so the belt was unified with the UFC middleweight title when Silva beat Henderson. ", 
        "Right on. I missed that and Penn-GSP II", 
        "I remember cracking up in the post-fight interviews when Rampage kept talking about Hendo hurting him badly by hitting his head repeatedly on his fist.", 
        "Yeah it was a very good fight. Not like Lawler vs Macdonald good, but definitely one worth a re-watch. It almost never gets talked about though. Real good example of some more old school MMA styles with the way they handle fence and clinch work.", 
        "Rampage's interviews in PRIDE were comedy gold!", 
        "Young people don't know, Rampage gave the best post fight interviews of all time. I always hoped he'd win just to hear his post fight interviews, really no reason besides that.", 
        "My favorite season of TUF is Rampage vs Rashad LOL when Page just rips the door off", 
        "Best TUF fight ever", 
        "And titties ", 
        "How did I miss titties in TUF", 
        "That whole thing made me hate Rampage to be honest. Asshole bully cunt.", 
        "Absolutly!  The worst season for me.  It should have been the best with Rashad and Rampage, but the longer that season went on..Rampage revealed himself to be such a bitch.  \n\nYou never want to be the guy who can dish it out, but can't take it, and he was the guy who couldn't take it.  At. All.", 
        "That's some wwe shit right here", 
        "*Intercontinental McGregor Belt.", 
        "Like the belt Taz created. FTW (Fuck The World) Championship belt. Perfect for Nate.  http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/prowrestling/images/1/1f/FTW_V2.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20130728090031", 
        "*\"Prepare for the Tazmission, William RIZZLE!!!\"*", 
        "THANK YOU! So many people think FTW means \"for the win\" now, & I have to quickly tell them that no, according to Taz it most definitely does not mean for the win.", 
        "it took me a long time to make that transition ", 
        "Don't forget the [Million Dollar Belt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Million_Dollar_Championship)! I'm showing my age", 
        "I really thought Conor might come out to Dibiase's entrance song.  I would approve of this very much. ", 
        "Virgil won a belt!", 
        "I don't know what is more surprising, that, or the fact that SCSA held the belt!", 
        "\"It cost around $125,000.\"\n\nYeah, that's the WWE for ya.", 
        "He had $975,000 worth of steroids hidden inside of it ;)", 
        "Your math is off jabroni", 
        "I adjusted for inflation.  To which year?  Secret. ", 
        "Diaz getting that fuck money ", 
        "Goofy shirt money", 
        "Give it to him. Why not? It's really between him and Alvarez assuming RDA fights at UFC 200 like he wants. The Khabib-Ferguson winner is right there but will probably have to wait til later in the year due to timing. ", 
        "Noooo who is managing Nate get him a Cowboy fight and Then a title fight. ", 
        "Nate already beat cowboy.  ", 
        "I'm aware about that, RDA demolished Nate, so I don't see why this line is chosen as an argument. ", 
        "I bet very few casual fans watched the first fight either and it would be a much better fight than Alvarez and RDA fench pushing for 5 rounds", 
        "I love how you guys has turned Alvarez into some sort of timid wrestler that only pushes people up against the fence after just one fight.\n\nEddie Alvarez has come out of the gate swinging for people's head for his entire career. He's been the one that would say 'fuck it' in the middle of a flurry and throws his own.\n\nI personally think a fight between a person like that and RDA would be exciting.", 
        "I think Alvarez vs Dos Anjos would be a badass fight. He's had a ton of exciting fights compared to the one lackluster one vs Pettis, so I feel like people are really selling him short lately. ", 
        "How was the fight against Pettis lack luster? He brutalized Pettis over 5 rounds, no ones ever done that to Pettis. All his other loses are super close razor thin decison losses.", 
        "I was referring to alvarez", 
        "Maybe but they are both fighters who come in with tight game plans on how to beat their opponent so it could easily be a snore fest ", 
        "I have to disagree with Alvarez being a tight gameplanner. I can't think of any examples besides his last fight. I can, however, think of several fights where he abandoned his gameplan to just brawl after getting tagged. \n\nI've seen about a dozen of his fights over the years, and the guy is generally exciting as fuck. Hell, most of RDA's fights are pretty damn exciting, too. I really don't see that being a boring fight. ", 
        "I agree that Alvarez isnt a tight game planner but I think he would be very cautious in a title fight. ", 
        "no....we've seen this fight. this fight will be over in 2 min after 3 leg kicks from rda... then itll be nate sitting on his ass flipping off rda for 4 rounds. rda will destroy nate even faster this time. ", 
        "Have Nate fight RDA for the title, have the winner of Khabib-Ferguson schedule a fight with Alvarez, have the loser stay healthy in case of injury. I don't see a flaw in that plan given that McGregor will probably fight Edgar.", 
        "Wasn't Diaz sick with the flu when he fought RDA?  Am I confusing that with another fight?", 
        "He was, but he was genuinely destroyed in their fight.", 
        "He said he was injured, that's why he missed weight.", 
        "Ok, that's right.  Thanks.", 
        "I'd like to see Alvarez get wrestle fucked by Khabib and thrown down the ranks again. ", 
        "literally thrown down the ranks", 
        "You mean due to injury? ;)", 
        "God I hope not", 
        "I doubt it. He will be exceedingly cautious now to avoid it happening again. Heck, I won't be surprised if he undertrained just in case.", 
        "Khabib will not fight during ramadam because islam.", 
        "Christ that seems so dumb. Khabib has already lost enough time with all the knee problems, I can't fathom how such a dedicated athlete would lose more time over something imaginary.", 
        "Man that's so damn retarded.", 
        "Well it can't be optimal to train for a fight when you can't eat or even drink water during daylight hours. Although I suppose making weight might be easier", 
        "> ramadam\n\nAh yes,  the famous beaver activity.", 
        "Ramadan is only a month. Who told Khabib it's all year?", 
        "His opponents", 
        "Gold!", 
        "I would too, I don't fancy anyone beating him in that division.", 
        "Ferguson might actually be his kryptonite.\n\nBig for a LW, long, experienced, unorthodox, unpredictable grappler AND striker and tough; hasn't been KO'd/submitted in the UFC, he seems to improve with every contest and is a newly minted father, so you can expect his resolve to be unyielding.\n\nCompare that to an injury prone, ring-rusty Khabib who's been out for 23 months. Undefeated sure, but still who the fuck knows what will happen.\n\nI am so so fucking excited for this fight because I have absolutely no idea who will win.", 
        ">  and is a newly minted father, so you can expect his resolve to be unyielding.\n\nlol. Secret to MMA success: have a kid before your fights. ", 
        "Ferguson should make fun of Khabib's religious beliefs. Take it back to the drunk TUF days.\n\n\"**WHERES YOUR GOD AT?!?!**\"", 
        "\"You fatherless bastard!\"", 
        "That could be explosive.", 
        "I agree, give it to him if he wants it. I can't see how he wins it as RDA is just about the worst stylistic match-up out there for him. It would be AMAZING if he beat RDA, and my appraisal of Diaz would go through the roof (it's already really high at the moment). I think he matches up really well with a ton of guys at 155, but I think Khabib and RDA are not them. ", 
        "Plus imagine the huge hype if he won and then rematched mcgregor for the lightweight belt. That'd be the biggest fight in UFC history no doubt in my mind.\n", 
        "> I can't see how he wins it \n\nlol this sub is hilarious, everyone is so sure of everything all the time. I wonder how many comments were deleted after the Rhonda fight, and now after this diaz win. I was getting downvoted for even suggesting Connor could lose to Diaz. Where the fuck are all those guys now? lol\n\n\n", 
        "If diaz beats rda i will eat my own cum", 
        "dontRemindMe! never days", 
        "You were just looking for an excuse - you've waited ur whole life to make this bet!", 
        "I think you just make those bets because you like doing sick things.  No one wants to watch 2 Girls 1 Cup.  ", 
        "Failing to honor bets is a bananable offense, just saying.", 
        "Only if you live stream it", 
        "Setup a cam first.", 
        "Lmfao ahahaahaha. You gave me a good ass laugh man.", 
        "I'd prefer you eating Dana's cum after flying to him post-match while tatooing 209 on his forehead. All of this before the suicide pact, though.", 
        "so just another Saturday night for you", 
        "RemindMe! 4 Months \"this guy...\"", 
        "I will be messaging you on [**2016-07-17 18:27:40 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2016-07-17 18:27:40 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4atrn8/nate_diaz_says_he_wants_title_rematch_with_rafael/d13jnwm)\n\n[**9 OTHERS CLICKED THIS LINK**](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4atrn8/nate_diaz_says_he_wants_title_rematch_with_rafael/d13jnwm]%0A%0ARemindMe!  4 Months ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.\n\n^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! d13jpd2)\n\n_____\n\n|[^([FAQs])](http://www.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^([Custom])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^([Your Reminders])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^([Feedback])](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^([Code])](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)\n|-|-|-|-|-|", 
        "Lol. I think you've backed the winner but I still have to save this comment ", 
        "Dude, what if he does it all the time already? I don't want to see that. ", 
        "If RDA loses I swear to God I'll let a 8/10 (f) do me. No joke, you can hold me to that. \n\n\n*The woman must be provided.", 
        "Oh yeah? Well if RDA loses I will accept a transfer of $1 million to my bank account. Beat that ", 
        "RemindMe! 345653 days.", 
        "You have to bet something you don't already do to make it meaningful. ", 
        "found Jon Anik's account", 
        "I don't think Anik is going to be doubting Diaz anytime soon.", 
        "No one wants you to do that...", 
        "He wants to do", 
        "I feel like it's a super easy fight to make. He beat conor who was \"technically\" the #1 contender since he was set to fight RDA. Ferg and khabib are already fighting so they are out. And imagine if nate wins, that would be crazy ", 
        "I think Nate is a much more marketable fighter as well, if he was champ his shit talking would be awesome!", 
        "Definitely. This is also a win-win for Zuffa. \n\nNate became an overnight star when the beat McGregor. Now, put him on the 200 card against RDA and you're going to have people tuning in to see Nate on the super card fighting for the belt. \n\nSuccess!\n\nIf Nate wins, he goes from being star to a legit superstar. And wouldn't that be a story? From TUF to a career of ups and downs to over night star to superstar. Media would eat that up and so will new fans.\n\nIf RDA wins, you now have his signature win. He finally gets the exposure he should've gotten after he beat Pettis. New fans are going to recognize that he's an amazing fighter and are going to want to see him fight more. \n\nZuffa needs to strike the Diaz iron while it's hot. ", 
        "Yeah Conor losing to Diaz was exactly what the LW division needed to get more media exposure, but only if Diaz vs RDA happens. It's the only fight making sense right now with Khabib and Ferguson busy.\n\nWinner fights the winner of Khabib vs Ferg, loser fights Alvarez, loser of Khabib vs Ferg fights Pettis. That's enough good fights to keep the division busy until Conor tries to move up again.", 
        "It would be perfect for Nate if he beat RDA, took the belt, and then they set up the Conor rematch at the end of the year. Conor enters the pre-fight press conference carrying his FW belt; Nate shows up with no belt. Nate doesn't even wait for the first question, just picks up the mic and says, \"Told you I don't give a fuck about the belt motherfucker.\" He then drops the mic and walks out. The place goes nuts.", 
        "Connor doesn't deserve a rematch. He got his ass beat", 
        "pls.", 
        "Connor rematch? I thought we had enough of earning title shots after a loss with Gus.", 
        "That would be a really great fantasy but in reality RDA dominates him again.", 
        "This is exactly what needs to happen. RDA v Nate Diaz and McGregor needs to go defend his belt. If both win their bouts then they should go at it again.", 
        "The numbers that would be broken with a full camp of shit talking and a belt on the line would be awesome.", 
        "Full Shit Talking Camp Conor", 
        "I would jerk off to every media event and interview leading up to the fight. ", 
        "I would love to see how Connor treats it being how nate beat him.  We haven't seen that before.  Need to see full energy management connor.", 
        "Everything between Conor and Nate is golden. It would be interesting to see his approach for the rematch, I agree.", 
        "Screw RDA, I want Diaz vs Trump, winner gets GOP nomination. Diaz-Diaz 2016, you ain't surprised mother fuckers.", 
        "This is why I hate Diaz fans.", 
        "Because they have a sense of humour?", 
        "As much love as I have for Diaz, he is no match for Trump's ability to nimbly navigate the octagon.", 
        "\"Let's dispel once and for all with this fucking fiction that Conor fuckin McGregor doesn't know what he's doing, he fucking knows exactly what the fuck he's doing.\"\n\n- Nate Diaz", 
        "You forgot a muthafucka's at the end there, bub!\n\n\nYour statement as is sounds like something that could be uttered by the pope, not a DIAZ!", 
        "So hey I don't give a fuck if he knows what the fuck he's doing motherfucker, this motherfucker fucking knows exactly what the fuck he's doing, but anyway, I don't give a fuck...\n\nbetter ?", 
        "if i only had more upvotes", 
        "Does the President Elect have to take a Drug test before assuming office?", 
        "Are you kidding", 
        "Upvote because I'd prefer this to an actual Trump candidacy.", 
        "I prefer this to anyone currently running.", 
        "In all seriousness, I want to see a Trump vs. Clinton UFC style press conference with Dana moderating. Would put Jones-Cormier to shame.", 
        "It would play out exactly like DC(Clinton) & Jones(Trump). Hillary has no game on the mic.\n\n\n", 
        "You think I'm just going to sit here and let you be President Donald?!?", 
        "You know I would absolutely schlong you, if you ever did something LOW ENERGY like that?", 
        "Sanders and Hilary playing touchbutt in the park", 
        "Your cabinet ain't shit. What Secretaries do you have.  Playing touch butt in the park, with that fat nerd with the front butt. My whole cabinet will beat the shit out of your cabinet.", 
        "Having a front butt would seem a massive disadvantage in the sacred game of touch butt.  ", 
        "Depends on whether you're trying to get touched or not. [Christie is the king of front butt]( http://imgur.com/4XXm074)", 
        "Hit 'em with some good shit.", 
        "Who do you consult with, mother fucker? I consult with top 10s in various fields every day!", 
        "How would you like a seat on my caucus", 
        "\"He was getting handed some solid shit.\"\n\n\"It's funny, cause Jose Aldo didn't get a rematch.\" \n\nLmfao gotta love Nate", 
        "But *tons* of people wanted him to get one - and he asked for one.\n\nIn this case, tons of people want Conor to get one, but he *hasn't* asked for one. He has answered questions about a rematch by saying he would be interested in one \"down the line\", after title defense(s).", 
        "The Aldo statement is so on point too. I get that the Nate rematch is a money fight and Conor is salty af that he got beat by someone coming off the couch but imagine how bad things will get for the Conor money train if he loses to Nate a second time. Conor needs take the lose like he said he would.", 
        "He loses nothing if he loses to Nate a 2nd time, he's still the FW champ and can fight as that at FW for as long as he can make the weight. It's not like he's gonna beat anybody good at LW anytime soon anyways. He makes another 5-10 mill in a Nate rematch and if he loses does what he'd do anyways.", 
        "...He is. Conor has not asked for a rematch. Did you read the article? The quote is talking about *people* clamoring for a rematch, not McGregor.\n\nConor has been asked about a rematch and specifically said he would be interested in it \"down the line\", after title defense(s).", 
        "He almost sounds like a dad with old man strength talking. I can hear my dad saying \"You're on your way to a knockout son, I'm about to hand you some solid shit\", and me noping the fuck outta there.", 
        "I think Nate would do better against Lawler than he would against RDA, RDA would probably chews his legs up again.", 
        "Lawler would be a good fight. RDA would win easily again. ", 
        "A good fight for diaz to be destroyed in", 
        "Imagine the amount of blood in the Lawler fight", 
        "less than the Rory fight", 
        "Lawler would murder Nate.\n\nJust too big.\n\nImagine if the McGregor punches that Nate ate in the first round were Robbie Lawler punches?\n\n[Last thing he wants to do, regardless of win or lose, is take Robbie Lawler punches. It's not good for... your head.](https://vine.co/v/ODpVamupXA5)", 
        "Lawler has a slow pace and spends a lot of time inactive so he doesn't gas.  Diaz doesn't let up.", 
        "I love the no at the end. The way he said he's all \"fuck that shit\".", 
        "I love how Nate is leveraging for Nick with his current position. \n\nI was always a massive Nick fan. In part because he looked after his, seemingly,  rambunctious little bro really well and genuinely. \n\nNow Nate has sort of jumped him in relevance and hierarchy in the scene and has been given the stage, and he's taken almost any opportunity to show Nick some love and reaffirm that Nick is still sorta the top dog in that relationship. Which, with all respect to Nate and his ability, is just true. Nick is a better, more competitive fighter. \n\nA lot of guys would never do that. Especially considering how he's already been in Nick's shadow for the entirety of his career. ", 
        "Nick is Nates hero and inspiration, i just hope Nate new found (and deserved) fame doesn't affect their relationship.", 
        "How do you not make that fight?", 
        "Cowboy is the bigger fight and RDA was the epitome Nate counter a year ago ", 
        "Because he has 1 top 10 win in the last 4 years and RDA recently smashed him.", 
        "He did beat the #1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 pound for pound fighter, though.", 
        "That's gotta count for something", 
        "RDA smashed him just a year ago, Id rather see Lawler honestly.  RDA is a terrible matchup w/ his leg kicks and wrestling.  With Lawler it would at least be more of a boxing matchup. ", 
        "If RDA beats Nate then maybe he will get a Lawler fight.", 
        "Because RDA recently smashed Nate. Leg kicks, great wrestling and smothering top control... I'm not sure how much will change from their last fight, other than Nate being more motivated.", 
        "Also, Nate beat #8 Michael Johnson and then the featherweight champ. Doesn't really qualify him at all logically for the lightweight title, but fuck it I wanna watch them fight again. I think Nate will do much better second time.\n\nWould it be stupid to do Nate-Cowboy 2? Both got smashed by RDA, both are there in the top 5 mix now, and there is a story from their first fight. I guess that forces an RDA-Alvarez fight, though, which a lot people may not want to see.\n\n", 
        "Johnson was ranked 5 or 6 when Nate beat him.", 
        "RDA also smashed Cowboy but that didn't stop him from getting a second fight, where he got smashed even worse than the first time around.", 
        "RDA took a 29-28 over Cowboy the first time. That doesn't exactly constitute as a smashing. ", 
        "Plus it took a hell of a win streak for Cowboy to get that rematch. ", 
        "Meh, Cowboy didn't look competitive at all.  Diaz also lost by decision to RDA.\n\nNot saying Nate wouldn't get smashed by RDA again but there is some precedent for giving him a rematch.\n\n", 
        "He won the third round of the first fight, and didn't get destroyed in the second. RDA clearly won but Cowboy definitely was competitive to an extent and didn't get smashed. By the way I have no problem with Nate getting a shot, I'm just saying that your recollection of the first RDA-Cowboy fight is a little off. ", 
        "So RDA will most likely want this fight. \n\nIf both figters want it and the fans want it...", 
        "I wouldn't be opposed to a Diaz/RDA rematch... I just wish the timeframe would work out better with the Ferguson/Khabib winner. To me, that fight will yield the true #1 contender.", 
        "> that fight will yield the true #1 contender.\n\nNo doubt.", 
        "Hopefully the winner there is next in line, if RDA/Nate does go down. Though I don't like long-layoff that could mean for Khabib.", 
        "> Because RDA recently smashed Nate\n\na year and a half ago.", 
        "You say that like a year and a half is an especially long time... It really isn't. That fight happened last December between two guys who have been fighting for over a decade, and not much has changed since then stylistically.", 
        "[For a little perspective.](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4asvcm/morning_report_luke_rockhold_says_daniel_cormier/d13aaz0)  Anything can happen.", 
        "Anything can happen, but that doesn't make it likely. That's not really an effective argument, to say \"if this crazy thing happened then why not assume this other crazy thing might\"", 
        "When did I say it was likely?", 
        "So why even say it? Just saying \"anything can happen\" does not justify making a certain matchup. Especially when you even agree that it is unlikely to be radically different now.", 
        "possible does not mean probable.  Learn the difference.", 
        "You made a meaningless and cliche statement that has done nothing to further justify an RDA v. Nate rematch. There is legitimate reasoning, and then there is what you said. Learn the difference.", 
        "Thats really not that long ago in MMA terms. You could also say 3 fights ago", 
        "A lot can happen in that time frame.  Just think about all the improvements and upsets there have been since then.", 
        "Anything can happen in MMA, which is why its so great, but how do you see a rematch going any differently? I think it would be pretty much the same. If anyone has improved its RDA.", 
        "yeah I honestly don't know.  I thought if Conor went up against RDA, Conor would have won...but I also thought Diaz was a greater threat to Conor than RDA.  But just because I thought Diaz would beat Conor, doesn't mean I think Diaz can beat RDA.  I just want to see it happen, with the hope that Diaz wins.", 
        "Isn't that the only fight where Nate's missed weight? That's not like the Diaz brothers at all so I given him the benefit of the doubt that he wasn't prepared for the fight whether it was due to injury or lack of motivation. I think RDA wins this fight again, but I think it will be much less one sided.", 
        "Missed it by 6 pounds iirc", 
        "Yup he was only fighting at 20% according to Nick or something. Had a bad injury. ", 
        "Can we make motivated Nate a thing? ", 
        "Rich Nate", 
        "Paid Diaz", 
        "You're on steroids. ", 
        "Off-the-couch Nate ", 
        "Free burritos Nate.", 
        "Mexico water Nate", 
        "Is fat boy off of cabo Nate a thing?", 
        "He's Been Training for a Triathalon Nate.", 
        "Ten-day Diaz.", 
        "'10 day Nate'  \n has a good ring to it.", 
        "Nate has actually started checking leg kicks now. Both brothers spar with kickboxer Joe Schilling.\n\nAlso I know everyone hates excuses but Nate was demotivated and injured going into that fight. RDA wouldn't have the same success this time around. I'd still favor RDA to win though.", 
        "Has he started keeping his hands up yet instead of just spinning a bicycle with them?", 
        "Yup he only lost because he didn't want to win ", 
        "I think you'd be surprised", 
        "He has, it's just the south paw stance of RDA that worries me, that chopping leg kick is just so close to Nate's front leg. That last fight looked like a stylisitic check mate, I don't think Nate is a lesser fighter, he just matches up terribly with RDA (kind of like Duran and Hearns or Khan & Judah/malinaggi).\n\n", 
        "Bear in mind this would also be a 5 round fight instead of 3 like last time which is a huge factor in Nate's favor", 
        "Quite the opposite. RDA also has good cardio, but Nate can't take leg kicks for five rounds. He couldn't even take them for three.", 
        "Well Nate had a leg injury going into that fight so who knows", 
        "He has good cardio based on one fight? Also, leg kicks hurt both fighters, obviously not equally but still, have you ever seen anyone throw leg kicks for five rounds? If Nate can even check half of RDA's kicks it will be a very different fight from last time", 
        "I don't really know, that's the only time I've seen him go five rounds. But I don't see how keeping up a very high pace across five rounds is somehow not indicative of good cardio.\n\n", 
        "Well I could just be a bitter Pettis fan lol. But I do still see that fight as an aberration", 
        "Dos Anjos can keep that up for 5 rounds and has against Pettis who is also a great striker.", 
        "If you watch the fight, it isn't like Nate wasn't trying to win. He was far from his best, more-motivated performances, yes. But RDA still showed he can block Nate's 1-2's, chop his legs out, get the takedowns, and avoid submissions from on top.\n\nStylistically, we have already seen that RDA holds the advantage. Now if Nate shows up in shape, and motivated, we might see him fight more urgently and try to impose his gameplan. But I think he would really have to finish RDA... Otherwise he will get his legs chopped out from under him and wrestled to a decision, if not finished outright (kill or be killed motherfuckers)\n\nAll said as a huge Diaz bros fan, too. I wouldn't be upset to Nate to get the shot, because Ferguson/Khabib probably won't make the 2-month turnaround for 200, and a world where Nate wins the belt is one I want to live in...", 
        "Nate wins the LW title in July. Nick comes back in August, scrubs some poor dude, fights Robbie in December, and wins the belt. UFC 209 is headlined by Diaz bro title defenses. Pinnacle of my MMA fandom. ", 
        "If they both have the belts, make 209 DIAZ vs. DIAZ! Talk about super fight. I know they would never do it though. ", 
        "Conor starches Aldo and Edgar in the meantime, Gunnar Nelson picks up a couple of impressive W's and then we have UFC 209 tag team match. McGregor and Gunny vs. The Diaz Bro's. ", 
        "This idea wins.", 
        "There's so many favorable matchups at 170 for Nick it's crazy. \n\n- Thiago Alves \n- Albert Tumenov \n- Rick Story \n- Tarec Saffiedine \n- Matt Brown \n\n2 wins over those and they could give Nick a title shot.\n\nBut I doubt they want to pay him $500k to fight those guys on some undercard.\n", 
        "I don't want to see Nick fight Tarec after what he did to Marquardt :(", 
        "Nick vs Wonderboy would be cool.", 
        "Nick is an amazing fighter, but Tumenov is no easy scrap for anybody.", 
        "They become main card fights", 
        "Put him up against Matt Brown as an opener for a UFC on Fox card. That fight would definitely grab some viewers.\n\nCan you imagine the hilarity as somebody is scrolling through channels to find two guys in a cage, one slapping the other guy silly while flipping him the bird?", 
        "i think nick has said he doesn't want to fight brown because of some reason", 
        "I have no idea if Nick said anything about it. I think it still makes a great mental image.", 
        "found it :\n\nhttp://www.bloodyelbow.com/2014/5/23/5744762/ufc-nick-diaz-loves-matt-brown-doesnt-want-to-fight-him", 
        "I don't wanna see my boy nate lose again.", 
        "As a RDA fan, I want this fight.", 
        "As a diaz fan pls no", 
        "Me either but if Nate loses, then he loses. Nate would be fighting RDA again sooner or later so long as he stayed on a win streak. Although I do wish that Nate had another fight before a title one, but the UFC will want a money fight for 200 and this is probably the best one.", 
        "He's looking so good right now though. Give it to him", 
        "I'm hoping that with the recent performances hes had and the pay he got from the last fight, Diaz may be motivated to up his game even more. It would be awesome if he just goes on a double figure win streak and retire as a champion. He deserves  some good success financially, considering how long he has been fighting.", 
        "So lets not give him RDA, lets give him cans just so he can stay relevant? No. Let the dude fight, let him prove and improve.", 
        "He just wants to fight and make a ton of money at the same time. I'm sure he'd care if he lost, but if he makes half a mil doing it it will be time well-spent.", 
        "Not cans but I'd like to see him fight Alvarez or Pettis. He'd get smashed by Kahbib or RDA again.", 
        "No ofcourse I know he has to fight RDA its just a little sad is all.", 
        "If we've learned anything, isn't it that we should expect the unexpected by now?", 
        "It's not really about that though. Nate came off a huge win but he really doesn't deserve a title shot already. He should at least get a contender fight first.", 
        "If  Michael Johnson beat Nate + someone else, he'd probably be looking at a title shot. I think it's not too far-fetched for Nate to get a second chance. They can spin it as first fight was Nate coming off a huge layoff in bad shape, but now it's the complete opposite.", 
        "It feels like we're moving further and further away from this and it bugs me. Like we've ll accepted and moved past the time of Dana White saying you need to clean out a division before moving up. Delegitimises the sport in my opinion. ", 
        "Just remember that Nate will be getting paid very well. If he loses to RDA again he'll probably never get another title shot. The timing isn't great for anyone else at LW to get the shot anyway, so just throw Nate in.", 
        "I don't know how this argument can be made, considering he just beat the guy who was supposed to fight for the title...", 
        "..because McGregor clearly didn't deserve the shot either.", 
        "The UFC thought Conor deserved the title shot so now they have to give the title shot to Nate.", 
        "You have to believe in your boy. ", 
        "\"he's still my homie!\"", 
        "[>mfw](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/sNa8W-PlMvY/hqdefault.jpg)", 
        "I love Diaz, but that first fight against RDA was a leg-kick massacre", 
        "I'd say give it to him. Michael Johnson was on a roll and he beat him convincingly, then he beat Conor. ", 
        "$$$$ talks make the fight happen.", 
        "Nate came in overweight for that fight and his leg got beat the fuck up.\n\nI really don't see it going that way a second time.", 
        "He also was useless on the ground. I see literally nothing to suggest that Diaz can win this fight.", 
        "I like that Nate seems more motivated to fight than Nick.  Nick is one of my all time favorites, but it seems like there's always a risk of him just not showing up to a fight because he missed his flight or just didn't feel like it or some other thing.", 
        "This, 100%. Nick has pissed me off so much with this attitude, at least Nate will actually put up a fight with who ever, where ever. Nick just acts like a child sometimes and it's annoying because he's a good fighter and person.", 
        "Yeah, it's a bummer, but true.  Nick seems like he might have some form of Asperger's or something.  Nothing wrong with that of course, but he just doesn't handle things the same way as most.  Whatever, I just want to see him fight.", 
        "I think he just hates the UFC. In Strikeforce he could go in, beat someones ass, get paid and leave. Now its media obligations, wear these clothes...ect, and he just doesn't enjoy the camera or being famous the way some people do.", 
        "Yeah, I get that.  And maybe it's not Nick's fault, but the UFC brass.  Either way, the fans end up getting boned if something falls through.", 
        "Jesus fucking christ the amount of people on reddit who give out a mental health diagnosis based on fuck all evidence is incredible", 
        "Eh, I'm not prescribing him treatment or anything. Calm down. Why does speculation about his mental health any less valid than speculation about his fight training or health regimen?", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJ9MVtYv7oM    It seems that all of that shit just straight up stresses him out to the point where he doesn't even wanna deal with it. It's pretty interesting, the guy doesn't even know whats going on in his contract at all, but he kinda of does because he says he gets PPV points. Good listen though. \n\nedit: Chael sonnen Interviewing Nick Diaz", 
        "Its a funny feeling to be more excited about the fight than the fighter seems to be.\n\nRory taught me that sometimes excitement stays on the inside.", 
        "Nick's reply to this would be something along the lines of. \"You get punched in the face for a living and see how you feel.\" or '209 Stockton motherfucker' *slap*", 
        "RDA outclassed Nate in every aspect of the fight, even outslapped him. But Nate beat a featherweight. Sounds reasonable. ", 
        "To be fair, Conor should be fighting at lightweight.", 
        "I agree. ", 
        "Nate beat the featherweight champion, not just any featherweight. ", 
        "I guess I don't disagree. But fuck it, it's a Diaz fight , I'm watching. \n\nCan't say I don't see it going 50-45 RDS.", 
        "Rafael Dos Santos? ", 
        "Against Nate at least. \n\n\nMy bad.", 
        "I was making a joke because you wrote RDS and not RDA. :P", 
        "I know. RDS fights like JDS against ND.", 
        "RDA needs this fight so he can start to build a fan base.\n\nI know people in these comments think it won't happen but the alternative is RDA vs Alvarez or having RDA sit until they schedule him against the winner of Khabib vs Tony.\n\nI think this is a good fight in the meanwhile. There's a strong chance RDA pummels Nate like he did last time but it's MMA and you never know with a guy like Nate. He's game and can win any fight.", 
        "The thing about RDA and his fan base is a pretty good point no one has made.", 
        "Imo this makes the most sense.  If UFC aren't giving RDA a Lawler fight, which would be all kinds of fun, then Nate Diaz capitalizing on his popuarlity surge and win over Conor Mcgregor with a title fight would be for the best.\n\nFor hardcore MMA fans, the outcome is super likely to be another RDA destruction.  For the casual audience who tuned into UFC 196, they only know of Nate Diaz being the \"I don't give a fuck\" fighter who tapped out McGregor.  For a lot of casual fans, it may as well be RDA vs. Diaz 1.\n\nSo business-wise for the UFC, I can see RDA vs. Diaz being a more sensible fight to make perhaps even at UFC 200.  The fight would probably be able to hold its own on top a PPV card as well.", 
        "I just want to see McGregor vs RDA :(", 
        "u got one upvote from RDA :)", 
        "Give it to him!", 
        "They probably should, because quite frankly nobody else can get more buys for a LW belt right now than Nate. RDA vs Khabib, Pettis, Alvarez, Ferguson all aren't going to get the PPV buys Nate will while he's hot.", 
        "Give him it he deserves it", 
        "I say he deserves it.\n\nNoone else stepped up to fight Conor McGregor on 10 days notice.\n\nDiaz vs RDA II UFC 200", 
        "Good.  \n\nFight fan in me wanted to see him challenge Robbie Lawler.   But this is a new, motivated Nate Diaz and I want to see if he can do better against RDA next go around.\n\n", 
        "I like this fight\n\n2 BIG ifs, but if Nate wins the LW belt, and Conor defends the FW belt, then it's also a perfect setup for Conor/Nate 2, now for the LW belt also\n\nNate stepped up on 10 days notice and bailed out the biggest PPV in UFC history, probably even made the sales bigger\n\nHe deserves whatever the hell he wants\n\nAnd yes I do think he's a better fighter than when RDA beat him. He's more confident, smarter, more motivated, etc.\n\nI would think Nate has a better chance of beating RDA at this point than Conor beating Edgar", 
        "Conor/Nate 2 would be fucking insane. In a very positive way.", 
        "RDA has improved even more than Nate has since they fought. I dont see how Nate even wins 1 round against him. ", 
        "No way.", 
        "you're right\n\nfans here get carried away by feelings\n\nnate has nothing for rda", 
        "He seriously doesn't I feel like we are talking about a different fighter. He's 19-10 and has won only 3 of his last 6. Why people think he's a top contender all of a sudden is beyond me.", 
        "Because people think Conor is a big deal at 155/170. And Nate destroyed him.\n\nConor is an excellent FW. But he would be absolutely destroyed by the top tier of the LW division. Nate proved that. \n\nAgainst top WWs McGregor would get murdered.\n\nWeight classes exist for a reason.\n\nMcGregor was the LW Champ on Cage Warriors. The UFC's LW division is on another level.", 
        "i'm with you until the last sentence.", 
        "I think that both nate and conor would be fighting their stylistic kryptonites -  but the cool thing is that if they both lose or win, a lucrative rematch is there ", 
        "that's exactly how I see it-- bad matchups for both Nate and Conor", 
        "The Lawler matchup is much more stylistically interesting imo. Nate is tall and should be able to fill out his frame a little bit.", 
        "I hate how the fans haven't seemed to been pushing for Nate Lawler.  Definitely a more fun fight on paper.  Seems like something perfect to look forward to for ufc 200.  I don't think Nate would hold the belt long if he won but stylistically it would rock.", 
        "I'd watch it for sure, but there are multiple deserving guys in that division. Nate has 1 recent fight at WW, and it was vs a featherweight so they wouldn't have to cut. \n\nIt would be exciting, but it would be a huge slap in the face to Woodley and Maia imo. ", 
        "Lawler fights very frequently they can all get their chance to get knocked out soon enough ;)\n\nNate taunting and slapping Lawler would be one for the ages.", 
        "Beating the 145 pound champ shouldn't give a 155er a 170 title shot over guys like Condit and Wonderboy ", 
        "Meh not always into the notion of \"deserving\" everytime... Just make the matchup that's most popular sometimes.  Plus Nate is coming off 2 massive wins.  It's not always about weight.  He fought out of shape on 10 days notice and finished their superstar If anything I think he deserves it.  ", 
        "Wonderboy would be good, but he's fighting in June. I don't want a Condit rematch.", 
        "Nate is a 55er no way that fight should be made.", 
        "Agreed.  Give it to Nick.  ", 
        "well if your only options are nick and nate yeah but Nick hasnt fought in over a year and is coming off a NC one or two wins then give it to him.", 
        "With a win over the champ though. it's a sellable fight and that's all zuffa cares about.", 
        "Oh if for sure could happen.  I would just prefer it not.", 
        "but as he said, that's Nick's match. I would love to see RDA vs Nate and Lawler vs Nick II in the future, maybe UFC 209 (OK no...)", 
        "That's a year away, they still need a fight in between. ", 
        "Since when did weight classes stop being a thing? Nate tried going to welterweight already and it didn't pan out, how is he suddenly going to beat the welterweight champ? ", 
        "He lost to people who wrestled him. He has not lost to a brawler at 170 and I doubt he would lose to Lawler unless the judges were to give Lawler another gift.", 
        "Hmm fair enough, I don't agree with that but I see the logic behind it. I still think that if Nate can get dropped by guys like Ben Henderson and Josh Thomson then Robbie Lawler is going to fuck him up when he starts connecting.", 
        "Nate is not as good as guys like Conor or Lawler when he's facing a wrestler. But when he faces another striker, he's a tough nut to crack.", 
        "This would be an outstanding booking.\n\nI say this as a Conor McGregor fan:  Nate did one helluva job winning that fight, in decisive fashion.  He stepped in, and helped save that card.  By winning such a high profile fight, he has put himself front and center.\n\nFighting RDA makes sense.  It's a loss to avenge.  If he wins, a title defence against McGregor would get even more buys (and a bigger payday for Nate) than their first fight.  Imagine if you will, the trash talk and hype Nate and Conor could generate with multiple weeks of promotion time.\n\nIf Nate somehow loses, and if Conor beats RDA, then Conor defending against Nate would still stack the cash.\n\nIn any case, Nate is gonna get paid some serious coin, and he's earned every bit of it.\n\nEdit:  missing word.", 
        "Somehow loses. Did you watch the first fight? If the same RDA shows up, Nate has almost zero chance. His style is Nate kryptonite. The title fight would be for the LW belt. He can still fight Nate for the McGregor weight belt and get his ass whooped on again. ", 
        "I'm still WAY more interested in seeing RDA-Diaz II because of Diaz-McGregor.  Obviously, he's in tough against RDA, but I think he can win.\n\nIn any case,  I'd hope that when Diaz-McGregor II happens, the LW title is on the line.", 
        "None of those things will happen. The only rematch Connor deserves is Aldo.", 
        "I'm thinking about what fights would get Nate the most money.  I think RDA is his best money fight at the moment.\n\nConor will be busy vs Aldo or Edgar.\n\nWho deserves to fight who isn't nearly as important as which fights generate the most revenue.\n\nI'm just saying that Diaz -McGregor II will generate crazy money, and when it happens, it would be cool if it was for the belt.  If I was Zuffa, that's what I'd be hoping for.", 
        "It begins", 
        "Fair enough but he'll get smashed again.  I really want to see Khabib vs RDA.  Obviously Khabib is busy with Ferguson though.", 
        "They need to make a movie around him if he beats RDA", 
        "If this happened it would be Nate's second title shot, right? \n\nIf Nate could defend against RDAs leg kicks I think Nate actually has a chance. \n\nI don't think RDA cares about pre fight shit talking. He didn't seem phased at all by McGregor shit talking. Same will happen with Nate. He might let it get to him after hitting Nate with a few solid hits to the chin and the Nate smiling at him and slapping him. \n\n", 
        "And getting taken to the ground and losing unanimously.", 
        "I like this fight now that Khabib and Ferguson are tied up fighting each other,.", 
        "Definitely deserves it. Like who else is there?. He beat Johnson in a unanimous decision and finished  mcgregor in less than 2 rounds on 10 days notice.", 
        "I mean... the UFC should if no one is in the works for RDA.  you can play the BS of Nate not being the #1 contender and all that, but the fact is, he beat the guy convincingly who was going to get the shot. If you put that much stock into McGregor as the UFC has, it has to be worth something to knock him down the way Nate did.   \n\nPlus it's silly for business not to.  Nate is riding really high, he has a large fan base and picked up an ass load more choking out McGregor.  You can't have Mac fight RDA now, so Nate is probably the biggest draw you can make for an RDA fight right now.\n\nDo it UFC", 
        "Slow down there champ", 
        "And he's down to fight him next week.", 
        "Nate Diaz p4p no1 if he beats Dos Anjos", 
        "Finally we're getting word of sensible match-ups ", 
        "Nate beat \"the best\" so now Nate is the best.\n\nTime for a belt.\n", 
        "Id much rather see him fight Lawler. It makes way more sense since his brother beat Lawler and it would be a exciting stand up war. A rematch against RDA isnt even interesting to me because the fight wasn't even close the first time. RDA easily won every round and if either of them has improved even more since they fought its RDA. ", 
        "Hope he gets it. Hope he gets paid. Hope he wins.\n\nHaving said that, I don't like Nate's chances to win. He relies to heavily on boxing and RDA is going to light up that front leg all night if he doesn't adapt. He needs to either take it to the ground, which is risky as fuck considering RDA is at least as good of a wrestler, or mix it up with his stand up game and stay mobile and use more kicks and his boxing range.", 
        "Yes pelase", 
        "I like both these guys and hate this fight, terrible matchup, but if Nate wants it he deserves it. ", 
        "Nate beats RDA, Conor beats frankie.  Championship rematch", 
        "As much as i love Nate, i think RDA is stylistically the absolute worst match-up there is. Strong, strong legkicks. Very good wrestling. World class BJJ. Sturdy chin. And lots of power. ", 
        "I said this to a friend before Mcgregor-Diaz. I think Diaz was a worse match up for Connor than RDA: he had the reach, boxing, ground game, and prefers to stay long in the boxing range where Connor can't reach and not have much to counter on. RDA puts forward pressure and loads up on strikes - exactly what Connor has shown to be strong at neutralizing.\n\nHowever, for Diaz RDA is the hardest match up. That forward pressure isn't something he neutralizes so well, and we saw how well that fight went down (this is assuming a Diaz without a flu)\n\nSo Diaz > Mcg, McG> RDA, RDA > Diaz. Styles make fights. \n\nI'd still like to see a healthy, motivated Diaz shock me and slap RDA around for five rounds.", 
        "Give this man a title shot motherfucker!!!", 
        "I would love Nate to be champion. He really deserves it. ", 
        "He should get a title shot, I would love Nate to be champion.", 
        "it would be funny to see diaz and mcgregor on the same card and the shit diaz would talk saying he deserves to be the headliner since he beat him and now he has the hype and deserves all the money. love diaz.", 
        "Yeah? He said that in the post-fight.", 
        "RDA took a hell of a boxing matchup.", 
        "I say:\nNate Diaz v. RDA\nMcGregor defends his 145 belt\n\nIf both win those fights, then they rematch for the 155 belt.", 
        "Nate will get this fight.", 
        "Professional fighters are so crazy. I would not want to fight RDA at all", 
        "Can some one please link the first fight.", 
        "RDA would chop those legs off, its the stand up that should prevail, if indeed it happens.", 
        "No he doesn't", 
        "What even is this Rolling Stone covering MMA shit??\n\nI can't even read on mobile due to all the pop-ups.", 
        "RDA gonna keep winning.", 
        "He deserves it. ", 
        "Sure, give it to him, but i think RDA wins again.", 
        "I seriously doubt RDA is getting a fight at 200. The UFC are going to punish him for getting injured and ruining their superfight. Its petty and stupid but well that describes Dana and friends. ", 
        "Unless they do RDA vs. Lawler if GSP falls through. They can have Diaz waiting in the wings in case either man pulls out. ", 
        "I agree with you. Don't piss Joe Silva or DW off. ", 
        "Doesn't make sense but ok", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Well it wouldn't be the first time I'm 100% wrong. ", 
        "It would be less about RDA, and more about Nate at this point. ", 
        "In a way it's about Conor as well.", 
        "Well, nate got a lot more popular now, so it would be silly to not set up that fight out of spite... Specially because if RDA smashes Nate again, then a fight against him and macgregor would be bigger... More so if macgregor is also in that card", 
        "That's the fight to make. Then winner of Ferguson/Khabib fights after.", 
        "I dig it. But please train like a madman in checking leg kick, Nate", 
        "RDA wants the fight and Nate wants the fight. I see no issue here! ", 
        "RDA/Nate sets up a perfect followup if Conor can take care of business at 145.", 
        "Good. RDA will finally get his easy money fight.", 
        "No he doesn't. He thinks he does, but he doesn't. ", 
        "Ewwwww...this won't end well Nate.", 
        "I hope they give it to him, and then he retires.  He's taken lot of shots over the years, and I'd hate to see what toll that has taken 5 years from now if he's still fighting.", 
        "I'd love to see it", 
        "I would love to see Nate vs Khabib. I would bet Nate as the favorite for that match up.", 
        "Khabib would rape Nate", 
        "Khabib is the best light weight wrestler. Nate is the kryptonite to that with he's BJJ.", 
        "Khabib kinda raped RDA.\n\nRDA's BJJ is better than Nate's.\n\nKhabib has solid sub defense. Sambo is the shit.", 
        "RDA fights winner of Ferguson vs. Khabib.\nNate fights Alvarez.\n\nWinners fight each other. Simple.", 
        "New rule. Khabib gets a contender fight every time on the same card as the LW title fight. If he makes it to the weigh ins unhurt he switches out to the title fight.", 
        "He's gonna get mauled again", 
        "no....we've seen this fight. this fight will be over in 2 min after 3 leg kicks from rda... then itll be nate sitting on his ass flipping off rda for 4 rounds. ", 
        "Nate calm down", 
        "Impressive win over Conor but he will get run over again by RDA", 
        "What will be different from last time though.", 
        "I don't want to see nate get violated by Rda again. ", 
        "Honestly, no thanks. The winner of Khabib/Ferguson deserves a titleshot against RDA. Nate beating a Featherweight at Welterweight should not give him a Lightweight title shot above the other top contenders no matter how much I like Nate. ", 
        "Khabib hasn't fought in almost two years, he doesn't belong near the title after 1 fight.", 
        "\"Deserves\" Lol. The UFC is a business and runs on popularity/fan interest. So to the UFC, who ever is going to sell the most PPVs or get the most views is more deserving.", 
        "Rematch with Conor is worth waaaaaaaaaaaaaaay more money, either Nate doesn't realize that or he cares about the belt more than he claims.", 
        "An immediate rematch for what?  There's no belt on the line as it stands.  If Nate beats RDA, Conor can go for the LW belt again, and the rematch takes place.", 
        "Doesn't matter, I'm not the one saying that's the fight to make either, just that if he wants a money fight Conor's still it.", 
        "That's not on the radar for a long time.", 
        "I think he knows that as well but he knows Conor has to handle business at 145 and why wait around when he is a hot commodity now. ", 
        "He's not dumb, he knows that. I think Nate would rematch everyone he has lost to tomorrow if he could, that and also if Nate becomes champ and then faces Conor in a super fight.... imagine the numbers on that.", 
        "UFC 198 = Brazilian UFC 200", 
        "I love this match up should be a good one it also confirms alot of Silva haters just saw saying Silva was scared to fight hall.", 
        "This cards incredible. I no its not likely but if cyborg gets put on this card too im gunna lose it", 
        "If they add Cyborg = Brazil 200", 
        "Huh, that actually makes a lot of sense", 
        "= Silva gets one last win and retires in front of the Brazilian fans. Let's hope he gets a finish.", 
        "Damn, that would be as close to a picture perfect send off for one of the GOAT's there could ever be. ", 
        "I doubt Silva can take this one. Uriah might not be consistent, but even on his off nights he'd still give Anderson a run for his money these past few years.", 
        "You doubt it?\n\nFor real?\n\nBisping is one of the most defensively sound fighters in the history of the sport, and the second he let his guard down one of the best flying knees *ever* was launched into his chin.\n\nSilva is an old man, and you may see only glimpses of his magic in each round, but you are being shockingly naive. \n\n>Uriah might not be consistent, but even on his off nights he'd still give Anderson a run for his money\n\nIs this a joke? I mean honestly is this for real, are you just trolling for a laugh? On his \"off night\", Uriah Hall lost to fucking John Howard. During that fight, two audience members started arguing over a dropped hotdog and the entire arena watched that instead. \n\nOn his best night, Uriah Hall and Silva is a fucking roller coaster of creative and lethal striking. On his worst night, Silva v Hall is one of the most lopsided affairs in recent history. The way casuals have discredited Silva is embarrassing. He's a 41 year old man who brutalized Bisping when his guard dropped for a second. I won't promise you a good fight, it's entirely possible we see two cautious men circling each other for three rounds, but don't act like you can't imagine a way Silva wins this. ", 
        "I think you're over reacting a little bit here. Sure, Bisping is a great defensive fighter, he is also significantly past his prime and has one eye. He basically shut Anderson out except for a freak incident where he totally stopped fighting and let Anderson spark him. \n\nAnd if you're comparing recent fights, the last time (clean?) Anderson beat someone as good as Mousasi was over 5 years ago. So like this guy, I make Uriah Hall the slight favourite, but of course I can imagine a way Silva wins too ", 
        "Histrionic buffoon.", 
        "I saw the same logic given when Holly Holm vs Ronda Rousey was announced. Anything can happen. ", 
        "Brutality.", 
        "Bro you can't just get worked up like this on the internet.", 
        "He's right though. It sucks to see fans discredit GOAT fighters because they weren't around to see them at their best. Fedor, GSP, Anderson - it just sucks to see them receive so much disrespect these days. ", 
        "I understand, but this is the internet.  I'm going to have to ask you to pull yourself together.", 
        "Haha I'm not the guy he was replying to, just adding my own opinion. ", 
        "Alright that's it sir, you've been warned.  I'm going to have to ask you to leave the internet.", 
        "[Okay...](http://45.media.tumblr.com/29245b22f9b63e50ebc47bd4eceb1b2a/tumblr_mrnew8wVsa1s6iro9o1_500.gif)", 
        "I just had to shake my head the other day when the topic of GSP at 200 came up and a bunch of people were talking about how the game has passed him by and he doesn't have a chin anymore etc. The dude had a 6 year undefeated streak when he retired and barely lost a round in that time, plus he's had arguably the toughest title run of any champ in history. ", 
        "I think people are mainly concerned about brain trauma with GSP. The guy \"misses\" hours of his life randomly. It's pretty scary.\n\nI'm sure he could still take a punch, but I really hope his chin never sees another fist for the sake of his health. ", 
        "Hope Hall Knocks him out", 
        "And then Silva comes back to win by decision.", 
        "Shots fired!", 
        "Leading up to the Bisping fight, his wife said in one of the videos on the UFC YouTube channel that Silva plans to fight until he's 43. You think he's changed his mind.", 
        "Add Shogun to that sentence and you have an historic event", 
        "Shogun is so washed up and over the hill at this point that I don't even want to see him step in the cage anymore", 
        "That's what i'm expecting. There was 0% he retires in london. He could have UFC 200 if he wanted it easily. There's a reason he's suddenly pushing to fight in a Brazilian card.", 
        "Could be he's trying to get on the juice.", 
        "doing the ufc a favor vs a favorable opponent to help sell out a soccer stadium... He's not retiring any time soon.", 
        "I don't know if it's because he's retiring afterwards, I think a bigger factor is simply that it's a 40,000 seat stadium in his hometown. Literally any fighter would want to be on a show that big in their hometown. Plus, whether he's retiring or not, he may never get another chance to fight in Curitiba.", 
        "Sure but... the thing with his career is that after the loss to bisping, he's minimum 2 wins before a shot (hall then someone else). He's already pretty old. So best case scenario he gets a shot in about a year? And again he'd have to beat a top contender so... likely weidman or rockhold. To get a shot after hall.", 
        "Why would anyone think Anderson deserves a title shot? Two losses to Weidman, an NC with Diaz, and a decision loss to Bisping. That's effectively 0-4 in his last 4. I love Anderson and he'll always be one of my all time favorites, but there is no way he should fight for a title after two wins in six fights. ", 
        "He fucked up Diaz and was robbed vs Bisping.\n\n\nI'm a big Hall fan but I think this is a bad fight for him. I don't see him getting the upset and on Brazil, he has to win via KO or stoppage. He has shocked me before though.", 
        "It has to do with his resume.  He held the title for so long. he would be considered for a shot at it because of how long he was champ.  ", 
        "So by that logic, you would be ok seeing Aldo lose three more times and then be given a title shot? I think you have to give recent history more weight than the resume when deciding title shots, but I do appreciate how his resume speaks to how great a fighter he is. ", 
        "I didn't say that I agree with it. I'm just saying that most likely that would be the reason if he were to hypothetically get another title shot after winning two fights. ", 
        "Hence why he has to win this next one then ask for a very big fight after that if he wants a title shot and he has to win that decisively and hope that nobody else makes a big rise in the ranks.", 
        "I'm not even entirely sure he wants the belt back. I think he's just taking money fights at this point. ", 
        "which is not a bad thing to go for. There some super interesting big money fights, I am going to be really happy to watch this match up and really liked the Bisping and Diaz fights", 
        "How is fighting a gifted younger fighter in his prime like Hall after fighting for 5 rounds 2 months before a money fight?! ", 
        "What a line up!\n\nWerdum, Souza, Anderson, fucking Shogun, Maia, Lil Nog, Vitor...legendary.", 
        "He's on steroids. ", 
        "This is exactly why grammar and punctuation are important. Bravo sir.", 
        "I thought shogun pulled out?", 
        "Poor Lyoto.", 
        "We'll raise a glass of piss in his honour. ", 
        "No Aldo either :(", 
        "UFC200 bruhh", 
        "Could be Edgar ", 
        "Bar\u00e3o facing Stephens two weeks later too...", 
        "I know that Anderson is in the goat argument and Hall is inconsistent, but if Silva, at 40 years old, can beat a guy that is so physically gifted with strength and speed, it will be a great accomplishment.  Even the spider's willingness to fight such a dangerous young contender that isn't a main event blockbuster name shows that Anderson Silva is not looking for low risk/high reward novelty fights, much respect to him", 
        "I don't even put that cheater in the goat argument. He got caught juicing the very first time he was ever tested out of competition, and hasn't won a fight since the new testing. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "For steroids that he said were in boner pills.", 
        " Do you seriously believe that ridiculous excuse? Lol", 
        "Literally almost every fighter juices you would have to eliminate 80% of the best fighters ever by this logic.", 
        "You can keep telling yourself that, but 80% of fighters aren't popping. Anderson did. See I practice \"innocent until proven guilty\" and Anderson was proven guilty.", 
        "This is what most fighters, trainers and commentators are saying and I trust that.  Also there are literal chemists developing ways to beat testing regimens as quickly as they come out.  Vitor still had elevated T but clean blood.  Just watch each generation will go through the exact same scandals. ", 
        "You don't have to put him there but the rest of the mma community does, fairly easily. ", 
        "Isn't Uriah like 36 years old?", 
        "31", 
        "Seems I'm way off then.", 
        "and it's not the years, it's the miles(Shogun)", 
        "And aldo, not saying he's past it but he's an 'old' fighter and he's only 29", 
        "Perfect example conversely is DC. Didn't fight MMA till he was 30. He's 37 in 3 days and he's the LHW champ. ", 
        "Not really applicable, wrestling is just as hard on the body as MMA.", 
        "I think his mind was quite clear when he started MMA compared to guys taking head shots their whole careers", 
        "I dont think many things compare to Chute Boxe back in the day tho. ", 
        "and still looks fresh AF, same with wonderboy, idk how old he is but he comes off as fresh as holloway", 
        "Wonderboy, what is the secret of your power?", 
        "Wonderboy is 33", 
        "Wonderboy is 33. Wonderman?", 
        "Wonderelder", 
        "Stephen \"The Wizened Wonder\" Thompson?", 
        "Wonderseniorcitizen", 
        "Wonderingwhyimsoold.", 
        "This is a great point actually. I've been so salty about Silva's last 2 fights and thought this fight was pointless, but looking at it from this perspective it is actually quite ballsy of Silva to take this. And in front of his home crowd in top of it. ", 
        "I am prepared for 7 and a half minutes of boring built up to culminate in half a second of brilliant violence.", 
        "Most people are speculating he retires with a win, I think he tries to go after the belt. Mentally it will give him his confidence back. The guy isn't fighting for money, he is fighting because this is who he is. He once stated in an interview that his greatest fear is not being able to do what he can do now (fight). As long as he has the ability he will keep doing it. It's why he wanted such a quick turn around after the Bisping fight ", 
        ">The guy isn't fighting for money, he is fighting because this is who he is.\n\n\n> It's why he wanted such a quick turn around after the Bisping fight\n\nThese are such great points that remind me why I'm still a big fan despite the controversy of the past year. Some aging fighters with a reputation to protect will wait for money fights or just retire at this point but Anderson at 40 years old chooses to fight a beast like Uriah Hall less than 2 months after a grueling 5 round with fight with Bisping", 
        "Agreed. I was thinking at his age Anderson would be just taking 'legend' matches.", 
        "Likewise, especially after the Nick Diaz booking, even though I wasn't complaining", 
        "Silva vs Dada 5000 would sell hella tickets. Just saying. ", 
        "This will either be the greatest fight ever or the worst fight ever ", 
        "Lol I don't think any fight can ever top kimbo/dada5000, ever.", 
        "Sapp / Akebono gives it a good shake", 
        "Yeah that was pretty damn good.", 
        "Best technical battle to ever be seen within a cage. Battle, not fight. These men went to war. ", 
        "Yea highly technical. Two of the greatest lethargic wet sloth style masters going head to head. I don't know if we'll ever get to see anything like it again. ", 
        "You're right, it gets no greater than that ", 
        "That shit was so crazy, a mother fucker barely made it out alive", 
        "Those two left everything in the cage.\n\n*WARRIORS.*", 
        "Leaning towards the not so greatest fight ever , I think neither will engage as much as they should", 
        "Yeah, expectations are low. Hall is shit vs people he likes and Silva is his idol. I have a feeling he's not gonna pull the trigger and it's going to go to decision.", 
        "I'm thinking anderson wins on points. if he starts to rock uriah, uriah's gonna pull out some crazy ass spinning shit and knock anderson into last week.", 
        "I'm hoping we see the pushing forward Anderson we saw against bisping.", 
        "Hopefully after seeing that not engaging can lose him fights, Anderson will be more aggressive. ", 
        "In front of a Brazilian judge though? I think Hall will need a finish to win. ", 
        "Brazil is in a complete upheaval over corruption lately, maybe the judges will take it to heart", 
        "That's a good point, I always looks at mma as existing in a vacuum. I hope you're right. ", 
        "Hahaha. But no. ", 
        "[Uriah is me friend, is normal.](https://www.instagram.com/p/ypQu-VLuLc/?taken-by=uriahhall)", 
        "Yeah... Uriah's not gonna win this. He absolutely does not give his 100% when he fights people he likes, that John Howard fight was stupid with them high-fiving each other in the middle of the match.", 
        "We need to splice his genes with whatever genes make Palhares try to kill everyone he touches.", 
        "sprinkle him with some crack", 
        "This will be an amazing fight or a really frustrating fight", 
        "> This will be an amazing fight or a really frustrating fight\n\nI disagree. I think it'll be a modestly decent fight with only a lit bit of frustration.\n\n/hurrrrvapidmeaninglesssportstalkfluffery\n\n", 
        "I would say it's a KO within the first few exchanges or a snoozefest.", 
        "inb4 they stand on opposite sides of the octagon all 15 mins waiting to counterpunch eachother", 
        "As much as I love both of them, this was my reaction when I saw the post on instagram. Honestly not excited about this fight. ", 
        "Lets just be happy its a 3 rounder", 
        "I hope Anderson just grabs Hall and Soul transfers into his body after this fight.", 
        "AHAHAH", 
        "i dig it", 
        "Me too, but I was really hoping he'd wait for UFC 200. Hopefully be'll be there.", 
        "He wont be, despite the ufc wanting to make ufc 200 the biggest thing ever, they will never put too many ppv collectors on a single ppv event, let alone one as big as ufc 200.\n\nFor every fighter like anderson silva, mcgregor, or rousey on ufc 200, there is less and less money going to the ufc.\n\nFor every ppv silva gets 3-9 dollars per buy, so lets say they break the ufc 100 record and it's 1.8mil buys.\n\nSo 1.8mil x 60 dollars = 108million dollars revenue.\n\nRonda/Mcgregor both earn somewhere between 5-9 dollars per buy, for this sake I will say 9 each.\n\nThey both could earn roughly 32.4mil combined, now imagine silva or gsp fighting on the same card and getting 5-7 dollars per ppv, let's just say 6 dollars each. Combined they would make 22.6mil.\n\nWith 4 huge stars on it, they could lose a maximum of 50 million dollars. Rumors also say that mcgregor could be making more than 9 dollars per ppv already, which is why he said ''a whole lot more than just 10mil'' when the money channel woman asked her about it. Now imagine all the unrealistic idea's of jones/lesnar/etc being on the card. It just isn't realistic.", 
        "lol I'm sorry but you have no idea what you're talking about, these numbers all seem so fake and made up", 
        "They are estimates, 3-9 dollars. Did you never go to school? Go learn how to do math.", 
        "You literally made all those numbers up. $9/buy seems a bit exaggerated but the fact of the matter is that no one really knows besides the two parties.\n\n> Rumors also say that mcgregor could be making more than 9 dollars per ppv already\n\nPlease show us these \"rumors\" lol\n\n> With 4 huge stars on it, they could lose a maximum of 50 million dollars.\n\nWord... I don't think you understand how the UFC is run dude. Quit while you're ahead and stop spewing these random calculations that don't make sense. ", 
        "I didn't make them up, its common knowledge the ppv share is 3-9 dollars, I only estimated 9 dollar shares each because ronda got 900k buys on her own in brazil and a million or more for the holly fight, while mcgregor did a mil for aldo and 1.5mil for diaz.\n\nIf you're raking in money on your own with nobody else helping you, then you're obviously going to be paid huge dollars.\n\nYou should learn how to read basic english, because you sound like an idiot. I said my estimates were examples, you are the one here too thick to sit down and actually educate yourself around how the fighters are paid, borderline retard.", 
        "But on the other hand, you can only stick on so many fighters with PPV percentages before there's simply not enough for the UFC.", 
        "Very true. But those ppv points seem wildly inaccurate, and I'm not even sure if Silva makes points now that he's not a champion - it just depends how his contract was written. You also gotta think that the UFC would make up some of their ppv losses with a huge gate.\n\nLike I said, no one really knows who makes what in terms of ppv points, so those calculations just seem ridiculous and unneccessary. But $9 for Ronda/Conor and $6 for non-champions seems too high imo. ", 
        "Silva dominates the brazilian market, got 800k buys on the diaz fight and has gone over a million ppv buys a few times.\n\nGsp dominates the canadian market, he is as far as I am aware the only canadian fighter that gets ppv points, him and silva are two of the biggest stars in the ufc aside from ronda and conor.\n\nThere are only a handful of fighters that get ppv, who else gets it besides mcgregor/ronda/silva/gsp/jones??? Holly had it and just lost it, miesha will most likely have it, but since she isn't a big star she will be someone getting 1-5 dollars.\n\nBisping/overeem in the past admitted to taking a big paycheck instead of ppv points, overeem most likely getting back on ppv points after his latest contract negotiations, but there aren't many besides them.\n\nI would be surprised if there are more than 10 fighters in the ufc as of this moment getting ppv shares.", 
        "your username", 
        "Yeah, I think a lot of the numbers getting thrown around are speculative. ", 
        "It is speculative, but it's the only thing we've got. We know the payments are 3-9 dollars each, and when you hear conor bragging about getting more than 10 mil for the diaz fight, considering how the ufc made over 90mil in ppv sales alone, it's only a math formula.\n\nIf Conor only got 6 dollars per ppv buy at ufc 196, then he would only have made 9 million.\n\nIf conor is on 7 dollars per ppv buy, he would have made 10.5mil\n\nSo do you see my point now? Either the ufc and mcgregor are lying about what they are paying him, which is roughly 7-9 dollars per ppv buy according to this simple math formula. Or you can do the math yourself and be quiet.", 
        ">It is **speculative,** but it's the only thing we've got. We **know** the payments are 3-9 dollars each\n\nFacepalm. ", 
        "The only speculative part about is the 3-9 dollars, whether or not if mcgregor is getting 7 dollars or 9 dollars. We do know that champions/biggest stars get somewhere from 3-9 dollars per ppv buy. Compared to someone like floyd/pacman getting 60/40 % of the total  440mil they got.\n\nSo what exactly is up to speculation? Do you think the champions are only getting 1 dollar per ppv? so mcgregor only got 1.5mil from the 90mil he earned for the ufc?\n\nSeriously, shut the fuck up and get the fuck out.\n\nAnd learn how to read basic English.", 
        "Quit being buttmad.", 
        "Mousasi would have been aggressive against Silva. Hall will fight not to lose, especially coming off a loss.\n\nJoe Silva what are you doing.", 
        "Theres been way too many fights recently were i don't want either fighter to lose. \n\nJoe Silvas a mad man.", 
        "That's a whole lot of certainty considering we have no idea about either of those things. Mousasi being aggressive against Anderson is highly unlikely. Claiming that Hall will fight to not lose is just a guess. I see this match-up being really good. Far better than the Mousasi fight.", 
        "More than choosing an opponent, Anderson wanted to be on this card.\n\nThere were rumours about Kennedy/Mousasi few weeks back. Not sure they'd take it if it ended up with Hall. I think Mousasi has said something in the past about not wanting to fight in Brazil too, but dont remember exactly what he said.\n\nI have no idea why would u expect Mous to be agressive tho, specially against a counter striker. He loves to win fights via jab jab jab jab..", 
        "What would almost certainly happen is that Mousasi will jab at Silva until Silva is forced to engage. Then he probably knocks him out. Even when he decides to jab his way to victory Mousasi always lands a few really hard punches in every fight. And Silva just can't take them any more. He got beat up and nearly finished by Bisping multiple times in the first rounds. That's a big red flag for a striker.", 
        "Kennedy vs Mousasi is the fight, imo. Mousasi needs to fight pressure fighters who have a skill level high enough to force Mousasi to actually fight. He's too happy to coast and only wants to fight in his comfort zone. ", 
        "True, thats a good fight. Seems like they are making Mousasi vs Brunson instead tho.\n\nUp there i said kennedy/mousasi as opponents being studied  for Anderson btw, not sure if the message was clear haha.", 
        "Ah, my bad! My comprehension sucks in the morning haha", 
        "Nah, it is the way i wrote it. Sorryz", 
        "Kennedy vs Mousasi would be a good fight too though", 
        "For sure", 
        "Big test for Urijah. Guy seems to have all the tools and skills but just chokes when it's showtime ", 
        "I don't fully agree that he chokes. I think it has as much if not more to do with Hall not forcing openings. If the shot is there he takes it, and if a fighter makes a mistake he usually hits them, but he's not willing to take risks to force shots.", 
        "Plus he's like a black Anderson Silva", 
        "Anderson Silva is black tho.", 
        "Hmm true, I guess Anderson is more like a black Uriah Hall", 
        "Definitely a big test.. Urijah jumping up 4 weight classes.\n\nRespect to him for being such an animal though.", 
        "He just won't cut height this time.", 
        "Can't believe the cut he's gonna have to make to fight Cruz afterwards", 
        "It's crazy to think right after winning his belt too, they must be prepping him for the Connor treatment", 
        "Praise uriJah", 
        "He's in steroids", 
        "Literally inside steroids ", 
        "Autocorrect never lies", 
        "I said this in the other thread but I know they were training together post UFC Melbourne so this is going to be a bit of a weird fight, I don't see either one pulling the trigger and it being a boring decision...\n\nI could be wrong though!", 
        "Also, Anderson is Hall's idol. I wonder if he will have an issue really going after him. I am rooting for Silva, but I am hoping for an interesting fight. ", 
        "Right, go to UFC.com and search for UFC 198 and then when you find it, look at the card. There's all the porn you need for tonight lads", 
        "This is an incredibly compelling and interesting match up that could very well turn out to be a horrible fight. ", 
        "They're both going to circle each other feinting and posing for the first 3 minutes at least", 
        "This is insane. Hopefully Uriah rises to the occasion. I see this being entertaining nonetheless, and if Anderson retires during it, a fantastic farewell to the GOAT.", 
        "Damn it's a trip to see Anderson used as merely an opponent for up and comers. He's my favorite fighter ever. He'll be KO'd.", 
        "its a good match up i think people are over thinking the situation forget belts rankings or any of that shit this is a good fight", 
        "Tbh I hope Anderson just retires if he loses this one. Keep your legacy man.", 
        "I don't even get why he's taking this fight tbh. Uriah is a fan favorite but he's barely top 15, so even if Anderson wins it doesn't really do anything for him. It's a high risk fight with no reward. \n\nI was hoping he'd just wait for Chael in July and take that fight, or fight Shogun since both of those are really low risk fights that can still headline. ", 
        "What's baffling is why the UFC made that fight. There's no reason to believe Hall will get anything out of this. He still loses to every real top 10 guy most of the time and there's no reason to believe that after all those years he can suddenly overcome his psychological issues.", 
        "> so even if Anderson wins it doesn't really do anything for him.\n\nFighting a fan favorite once you are past your prime is the best way to make money. I don't think Silva really needs to prove anything at this point. He probably just wants to keep fighting and making money and probably wants to keep his career going just long enough so people don't 'just' remember his losses to the Chris.", 
        "We'll remember his loss to Bisping too.", 
        "We sure do, but i don't think anyone was unimpressed, can you blame a 40 yo dude who hadn't fought in forever for being rusty? Overall it was a cool performance", 
        "It was a fucking awesome fight", 
        "if hall wins by devastating knockout he will then go on to lose a split decision to cb dolloway then promptly call the fans \"haters\" that are the same as terrorists", 
        "well shit!", 
        "Cool", 
        "I love this fight and hope Silva wins ^^somehow because I love Silva but I'm so scareddd.", 
        "Yeah. I'm pissing myself over the idea that Anderson might be TKOed", 
        "Weird fight, I don't know what to think", 
        "UFC 198 is looking hot", 
        "One of them is going to show up in game mode and the other is going to show up in 5 warm-up rounds mode", 
        "Hall by KO. Round 1.", 
        "Winnable fight for Hall if we don't see a Pat Barry vs Cro Cop type of fight.", 
        "Hall by KO", 
        "Either the Spider wants to go out on a win in front of his people or he is gearing up to make another run.", 
        "i just hope hall doesn't have too much hero worship for silva.  i remember gsp first fight against hughs and it was mentioned that gsp really looked up to him and one of the reasons he lost was because he respected hughs too much.", 
        "This will be interesting a dangerous fight for Silva depending on which Hall shows up.", 
        "198 is so fucking stacked", 
        "This was actually a fight I always wanted to see but thought I would never get too. Is it 3 rounds?\n", 
        "That is fun!", 
        "If Anderson decides to goof around like an idiot, I think he'll get KO'd. If he decides to take it seriously, he may win.", 
        "Ah I miss the days of serious Anderson. \n\nThe way I see it, Hall has the artillery, Silva needs to use his timing and experience. Any wasting time like he did against bisping will cost him in a similar way. He can't guarantee a finish or a judges decision any more, he isn't active enough.", 
        "He isn't even the kind of fighter that typically wait for a decision. His record speaks for itself.\n\nHonestly I don't know what he was thinking on the Bisping fight.", 
        "Absolutely agree. Well said", 
        "I expect this fight will be a fight.", 
        "Punches will be thrown. Kicks will be thrown. Somebody might get hurt.", 
        "Don't look forward to this at all. ", 
        "Is another loss for Silva the nail in the coffin for him? Is a win for Uriah a bench mark in his career? ", 
        "For all the shortcomings of Urijiah Hall as a fighter, being able to hit hard is not one of them. Silva's chin is pretty much condemned at this point and he is going to go down in a heap. It will be sad and it will be ugly.", 
        "If Anderson loses, he should retire.", 
        "If Anderson wins, he should still retire.", 
        "Very weird. I'm thinking either Uriah won't want to punch the legend... or Anderson will psyche Uriah out so bad that Uriah will hardly punch at all and wither.", 
        "Uriah looks like he's Anderson's awkwardly overprotective wingman in that picture.\n\nAnd now that's a sitcom I never realized how badly I want to watch\u2026", 
        "Looks good on paper. In reality it might be a dancing competition. ", 
        "Man, Silva is not winning this fight. He isn't quick enough to me matrix Silva against Hall. Bisping nearly KOd him in the last fight and Hall his a hell of a lot harder than Bisping. I would love to see Silva get the win but I dont think his chin will take it. ", 
        "Cool, but Hall doesn't deserve this.", 
        "Agree.. Let's just hope that the spider gets agresive.. Cuz his last fight was so frustrating -. - ", 
        "Silva going nighty night. He can't get touched by Hall.", 
        "umm what?", 
        "I mean that hall will incur a terrible injury on Silva should he connect.", 
        "oh my god Anderson is gonna die :(", 
        "If there are only 5 fights on the main card this means either little Nog or Maia will have to be on the undercard. This card is stacked! ", 
        "Uriah Hall needs to find a better gym to train at. His boxing coach is decent but has a consistent error in having his fighters never throw combo's. Uriah needs to start getting those combinations together and his hands will be even more lethal. To be completely honest, call me insane, but if Hall gets this win and gets either Machida or Bisping who he could both beat, he's next in who's DESERVING for a title shot. His loss to Whitaker was on a few weeks notice from a previous fight that was from a late notice too. We talk about how Hall sometimes doesn't come to show up, but to be honest, we hardly see Hall at full training camp level. He deserves this opportunity to fight a legend in Anderson Silva more than anyone else on the roster does imo.", 
        "There will be spinning shit", 
        "I've got Uriah by tko, last 10 seconds of round two or early round three. His end of the round assassination attempts will do it for him.", 
        "\"Spinning Shit\" incoming\n", 
        "I wonder if we get no engage Hall or insane KO via spinning shit Hall. ", 
        "They'll prob both just dance around with their arms down and throw 1 punch the whole fight", 
        "Rip Spiderman", 
        "Would Silva be making Red panty night level of money?", 
        "It's like everyone is just trying to get their wins in while he is still fighting ", 
        "If they both pull the trigger this might be fight of the year! I'm very excited!!", 
        "I wonder, when anderson will retire... 4 in a row?\nGetting smoked all the time like liddell?\nHopefully both deliver here, but im sure it will bei faints oder faints.", 
        "If Uriah does his Akuma pose he will win.", 
        "This fight makes no sense. I don't think Hall deserves it the slightest bit. ", 
        "Crazy to think I used to go wild when Silva would fight once every couple of months. Now that he's fighting these types of matches, its kinda \"meh\". Still a phenomenal athlete and fighter, champion. But he doesn't have that draw factor as much anymore.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I read this in Joe Rogan's voice for some reason.", 
        "I don't know man... His performance against Leben wasnt that impressing and I feel like he got somewhat lucky against Mousasi. \n\nHe gas out quickly and dosnt really have a good stand up.\n\n", 
        "Here's to hoping that Silva will end his career by finishing a fight instead of dancing and mugging and clowning around like a bundle of sticks for five rounds. I love you, Andy. You're still my favorite fighter but you're goddamn killing me over here. ", 
        "Guess Uriah hall is going to have find that nasty soon", 
        "anderson silva vs new anderson silva", 
        "This will not end well for Silva", 
        "'Sorry Anderson'.............", 
        "I'm calling it now, one of them pulls out and the fight is rescheduled for UFC 200 somewhere in the main card.", 
        "My body is ready", 
        "I don't think Anderson has ever fought someone who can throw a headkick like hall.  This will be interesting. ", 
        "He fought and KOed Vitor who has incredible kicks as well. KOed him in the first. Anderson has seen it all. ", 
        "Was Vitor even throwing head kicks like he did against Bisping and Rockhold back when he fought Anderson?", 
        "No, but I doubt very seriously that he would have wanted to take that kind of risk so early in their fight. Remember, the Spider was pretty much untouchable at that point. ", 
        "A juiced to the gills Vitor not to mention.", 
        "Exactly. ", 
        "more ninja shit!", 
        "Hall is going to KO Silva. ", 
        "Anderson is gone. Lets face it. He lost to Bisping, I know Bisping is half a bad ass at least but against Anderson? It shouldn't even be close. \n\nI hope Uriah nails it and his confidence grows. If that guy could get his nerves straight... ", 
        "Hall will wreck Anderson. Im calling it right now.", 
        "I really don't care for this fight and I love both these fighters", 
        "I'm guessing neither pulls the trigger and they dance battle more than fight. Hope I'm wrong and one of them gives us the highlight KO the UFC wants out of this matchup. ", 
        "This fight does nothing for my wiener.", 
        "I'm at the point where I will be skipping all of Anderson's fights till he retires. I actually started that after the ending of round two vs Bisping.", 
        "How depressing will it be when Anderson invites Hall to hit him, and then he does, and then Anderson falls down. Ouch.", 
        "I'm prepared to give Anderson another go. I'm hoping he doesn't dick around and lose again otherwise I'll stop defending him ", 
        "Oh wow, he better win. What will he do without you defending him?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What has Hall done to make you so angry?", 
        "...whhy?\n", 
        "How dare you challenge [Wandy and Shogun](http://i.imgur.com/sKFjjWT.jpg)", 
        "Coleman is going to be pissed when he finds out Shogun took his shower shaving buddy ", 
        "*Buttscoot*\n\nA story of two young Brazilians from opposite sides of town and social class that find they're the only ones able to pass each other's guarded hearts.", 
        "Bigfoot is a power bottom", 
        "Can't unsee that thanks.", 
        "Does power have to do with size or strength of the bottom? ", 
        "Now ive heard speed has a lot to do with it?", 
        "I heard timing beats speed...", 
        "Speed has EVERYTHING to do with it.  You see, the speed of the bottom informs the top how much pressure he's supposed to apply.", 
        "It's more about the cadence. ", 
        "Just puts it into perspective of how fucking big Bigfoot actually is haha.", 
        "It's because of the angle. GSP looks huge. not a manlet etc. eh you know how it goes ", 
        "Can't beat boxing's star couple\n\nhttp://m.imgur.com/fokYIto", 
        "Hahaha wtf, dude even has the milf glasses going on.", 
        "I see they took it to the next level", 
        "Bigfoot cheated on him trying to get with Hunt.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qku-i826u2A", 
        "I love that Dana's just staring at them like \"Guys, what the fuck\"", 
        "... Where are their hands?", 
        "On the big nog ", 
        "https://youtu.be/YaG5SAw1n0c", 
        "It's cute how they're holding hands under the table.", 
        "cute.", 
        "Dehydrated Tim Means, is that you?", 
        "Wonder if we will hear the same thing about Yoel sometime soon.", 
        "I just want to learn how those supplements get tainted. Some guy in the factory  walks by the protein powder and by accident drops, high quality, super expensive PEDs in the mix and is like fuck it. We will send the patch like that anyway.", 
        "Same with the paranoia about someone dosing you with drugs. Unless it means getting roofied, that shit ain't happening. Drugs are expensive and fun, people don't go around giving them to unknowing strangers for free.", 
        "Do people actually think Yoel wasn't on shit?", 
        "In every Yoel Romero fight he cheats and gets away with it. I expect no different when it comes to USADA.", 
        "Yeah, that's completely untrue but whatever.\n\nEdit: To all the neckbeards downvoting me, why don't you list all the times he's \"cheated\" in his fights? The only time I remember was the cage grab at the end of his fight with Jacare, something every fighter has done atleast once. But yeah, that goes against the circlejerk. \n\n\n", 
        "...stoolgate?", 
        "[removed]", 
        "Lol, ok. \"Continual fence grabbing\" when? \"drenching him in water\" every corner pours water on their fighter to cool them down, what's your point? And even still, it's nothing to do with him, he's not the one pouring the water. Also, why does nobody give a shit that GSP's corner used to deliberately grease him up in fights? So often that the UFC had to introduce independently hired cutmen to prevent corner interference.\n\n\"stool incident\" lol, I'm sick of this being brought up, there was no \"incident\". The UFC HIRED CUTMEN put slightly too much vaseline on him and McCarthy made  a big deal of it by ordering him to sit back down and have his corner wipe it off, but ofcourse Yoel \"cheated\". (even though he was barely even present due to being so badly rocked by Kennedy, who cheated earlier in the fight by grabbing his glove and holding him in place so he could land those big shots.)\n\nEdit: Lol, more silent downvotes. The neckbeards have been stumped and they know it.\n\n", 
        "he didn't even bring up being overweight", 
        "The insult of neckbeard on the internet pretty much implies being fat too. Sorry, I'm sensitive.", 
        "Sitting on the stool too long, fence grabs pretty much every fight, watered down like he's a beached whale every damn round.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You addressed it *after* I posted.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You put up your response to octobadger five minutes after I posted.", 
        "No. He didn't. ", 
        "Of course /u/Cuban-Irish would be in a hard place in response to a Romero remark on St. Patrick's day! A perfect storm!", 
        "If I were a commission official and Yoel Romero were standing in front of me claiming tainted supplements were the cause of his positive test, I think I would have trouble keeping a straight face. ", 
        "Malki said he thought Yoel would get a warning which sounds like nonsense.  Other athletes who have had \"tainted supplements\" have gotten year suspensions.  Assuming the tainted supplement thing holds for both guys, I'd expect both of them to end up somewhere in the year ballpark.", 
        "What other athletes are you referring to?", 
        "[Jessica Hardy (olympic swimmer) got a year for tainted supplements.  So did Scott Moninger (a cyclist).](http://www.usada.org/testing/results/sanctions/)  I know there have been others but they're not coming to me at the moment.\n\nNot everyone who blames supplements gets a reduction though.  USADA does their own investigation and if they don't buy it you get the standard sanction.", 
        "It'd be pretty easy to \"taint\" your own supplements and spin a story", 
        "Wouldn't matter, they don't test the athlete's supplement, they get the batch number and test a different sample from that same batch. ", 
        "What if they can't find another from the batch?", 
        "If they can't confirm it the original suspension stands I think.\n\nAt least usually.", 
        "I don't know, but these companies usually make pretty huge batches at a time, so I don't think it'll be an issue unless someone is using a supplement that is years old or something. ", 
        "I'm just looking for loophole here. Wouldn't it make sense then to hang on to your \"tainted\" supplement for a while before starting to take it to lessen the chance of them finding another from the batch. ", 
        "I don't think so, because if you are using a supplement so old they can't even find another sample from the same batch to test it, it'll be well known as something that has an unlisted banned substance at that point, and it'll be obvious the person taking it was trying juicing intentionally. The odds of that amount of time elapsing and no one catching that product as having some extra unlisted substances in it seem really low. If someone is taking it then it'll be hard to claim its accidental. \n\nAlso why would you hold onto an supplement that old unless you knew it had some shit in it? \n\nI think in that case it would be pretty easy for a commission or USADA to say it was intentional. ", 
        "Isn't it the commission that decides the punishment, and not the USADA?", 
        "Edited because I fucked it up.\n\nUSADA handles all the testing and doles out sanctions year round.  When the test is an in-competition test they report it to the relevant commission who might also hand out their own suspension.  I'm assuming the sanctions from  USADA and the commissions will be concurrent, but that's just a guess on my part. ", 
        "There has been no confirmation Yoel even had a tainted supplement. It's just his management talking shit. \n\nRomero would also be the first athlete of all time to have a peptide that tainted one of his supplements. ", 
        "> There has been no confirmation Yoel even had a tainted supplement. It's just his management talking shit\n\nI think Malki is full of shit too, for the record.  In regards to this incident in particular and just in general with everything he says. ", 
        "\"Malki\"\n\nHis name alone makes me suspicious of anything he says. Then I see his face and say, \"No thanks I'll pass\".", 
        "Can someone ELI5 how supplements get \"tainted'? Is it just an excuse, or is there something in supplements that bring back false negative results in tests?", 
        "You know the whole spice controversy? the  synthetic cannabinoids that gasstations sell and online shops do? Supplements are the same fucking thing except they are like the ups instead of downs, once an ingredient gets banned they slightly modify it so that it isnt banned anymore and the whole thing is a cat and mouse game.\n\nthey can also get tainted by machines not being cleaned enough inbetween batches.", 
        "[There was a Frontline documentary on this a few months ago.](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/supplements-and-safety/)\n\nTL;DW: Supplements are pretty much unregulated unless they start harming/killing people.", 
        "The supplement industry is like the wild west. ", 
        "Because they're supposed to contain the steroidal ingredients. It's not a mistake. They are a way for companies to dance around the drug laws. The FDA was blocked from taking action by Senators like Orrin Hatch from Utah where a lot of the companies operated out of. They hid in the weakness of the DHSEA bill. Vitamins are useless but it's a multibillion dollar industry and so they lobbied the shit out of politicians. This is why you had guys on Andro and the like. By using \"precursors\" it was a legal way to sell steroids. \n\nBut at the end of 2014 the US DASCA bill was signed into law which banned dozens of steroid precursors that companies were using. Whether companies are still trying to find ways to spike their supplements or it's just a matter of the previous batches still working their way through the system, I don't know. \n\nBut supplements without steroids are useless and that's the viewpoint of USADA. Which is why they hold athletes responsible for what they put into their body. The state commissions have shown leniency on supplements if they believe the athlete was unaware but that's an area where an athlete can always feign innocence. The companies made supplements ubiquitous with sports so many are told they need them when they're actually useless. It will be interesting to see how USADA handles these early drug test failures being put on supplements", 
        "You should listen to the JRE podcast with Jeff Novitzky as the guest. He talks about tainted supplements, different cases where they've been tainted, how they get tainted, why it's so hard to regulate, a whole gang of PED shit. I've only listened once and just made myself want to go back and listen again.", 
        "adding on to what has been said. As well as adding additional unlisted substances they also dont always clean the equipment. For example you could buy Protein Powder being put together with the same equipment they just mixed Elephant Testosterone with. Next minute you pop for Elephant Test. ", 
        "They're not really well regulated. Companies will add things to them that are not listed on the ingredients list/packaging, they will slightly modify things and give it a different name if a certain substance was banned, etc.", 
        "So what prevents me from tainting my supplements with steroids I use and pull this defence once I get caught.", 
        "They don't test your stash.  They go out and find supplements you didn't touch from the same batch as the ones you claim were tainted.", 
        "Can confirm, I deal with supplements and a huge chunk of brands including Musclepharm, BSN, GNC and others have been busted for adding undeclared substances\n \nSome ingredients are technically legal. just banned by agencies like the World doping agency. ", 
        "Fuck yes, I believed him and I really was going to be bummed if he was liar. \n\nTime to get back to doing people dirty. ", 
        "Dude I know, ever since his Matt Brown fight and watching some of his nasty finishes I have become a fan and was really hoping that he didn't actually knowingly take anything banned. Can't wait to see him fight again.", 
        "Has anyone tried these SARM products?\n\nThey're legal and apparently work, my question is, how well compared to your traditional steroids?", 
        "I follow a guy who promotes this stuff on Youtube, basically he says if you can get a hold of pharma grade anabolics don't even bother with this stuff.\n\nHowever, if you can't, and you don't want to go thru underground sources for BS Chinese steroids or whatever SARMs are a good option, and more effective than shitty herbal test boosters anyway.\n\n", 
        "What's this guys youtube channel?", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ppo8U5poncE\n\n", 
        "Oh yeah I think I have heard about this guy, the name is familiar. I think I saw a video where he discusses the effects HGH has had on his body.\n\nI guess he has good information huh? Thank you for the link.", 
        "Ward also has his own SARMs line and endorsed BioGro back in the day, too", 
        "They suck, tried Ostarine and LGD but shit's not worth the high cost", 
        "I wouldnt say they all suck.", 
        "The ones with steroids work just fine.", 
        "The best stuff if you're going for that Tim Means physique.", 
        "Tim was a guy I looked and instantly knew was on the juice. You can't cultivate that much bulk naturally. ", 
        "This is so awesome.  Tim and his fiance are some of the coolest people in the cage and out.  Really couldn't believe he of all people tested dirty.  Those FIT-NHB fighters over in Santa Fe all seem pretty legit and honest to earth people/fighters.  ", 
        "Amen. ", 
        "I believe him, but why does it matter? Seems like you just have to make this claim anytime you get caught. ", 
        "Possibly he had samples or leftovers of his supplements. When tested they came up positive.\n\nOtherwise the supplement company may have supplied a sample from the same batch.", 
        "Great news for Tim, but this makes me feel more like we were robbed of the Dirty Bird vs Cowboy.", 
        "That's the oldest excuse in the book, what made this time different?", 
        "Apparently they red-flagged a supplement that wasn't on the banned list. We'll see", 
        "I wonder if this will turn out to be the case. I have a feeling that fighters and their management feed stories like this to the media to to muddy the water about the guilt of their fighters in the fans eyes. But we will see. ", 
        "What was the substance he popped for?", 
        "Ostarine. ", 
        "I wonder if someone has set up a company that is purposely mislabeling its products to help these athletes out? You know, do steroids AND take the supplement that \"accidentally\" has a banned substance? This way, if you test positive, you can claim innocence and get off easy. ", 
        "That is good to hear because if athletes are expected to check every OTC supplement for tainted compounds, then that is impossible. The supplement industry isn't regulated and there is all kinds of shit out there.", 
        "Good,  nice to see a guy who claimed to be innocent actually be innocent ", 
        "All these \"tainted\" supplements.... /:", 
        "Actually a legitimate problem in the supplement industry.", 
        "If you're a professional athlete, you should be aware of wtf is going into you're body.", 
        "Testing is expensive and Tim Means isn't exactly making bank. ", 
        "Right. But I don't see a problem with negligence being treated differently than willful cheating. \n\nIf there is no ability to tell we have to treat them the same to be on the safe side. If we can tell...why not make a distinction? \n\nThey still have to be punished but the taint is less.", 
        "I agree.", 
        "Agreed.   Suspended athletes should sue the supplement company.  But a drug program is pretty useless if you have to prove intent", 
        "Lmao don't rage at me for stating facts ya goof. There's been cases of people getting batches of simple vitamins that were tainted. Any supplement or vitamin can be tainted with poorly cleaned equipment. ", 
        "\"ya goof\"? Dana?? lmao, I'm just saying a professional athlete should be taking an FDA approved supplement. Not some shit bought online from China.", 
        "The FDA isn't in the business of regulating supplements. The closest they got was considering regulating vitamins in the early 90's. More people wrote to the government to protest that than anything in history. The supplement industry has a lot riding on staying unregulated, and most would go out of business if they had to back up their claims.\n\nIt was one of the first things John Oliver covered when he started his show.", 
        "Dude that's the thing I'm pretty sure the FDA doesn't regulate any supplements. Not even simple vitamin C has an FDA label.", 
        "Yeah you're right about that. But I've noticed many times the supposed \"tainted\" supplements are purchased from sketchy places. I'm pretty certain a vitamin which is well known and manufactured by an American company, won't be tainted.", 
        "All this shit is way beyond my knowledge besides the little I've told you. I'd guess most the stuff that comes up tainted are the type of things you see on the shelves in GNC advertising massive gains, and pulled from the shelves shortly after.", 
        "Just stop.\n\nThere is an entire industry built on \"tainted\" supplements. People want legal gains, and companies want people to buy the products. You do the math. \n\nJust go to a bodybuilding forum and post the same shit you've been posting in this thread. You'll be laughed off the website. \n\nYou don't have to like it, you don't have to agree with it, but pretending it doesn't exist is just pants on head retarded. ", 
        "But if you're a professional athlete, you should be much more cautious than regular people. It could ruin you're career ffs.", 
        "No educated athlete is going to be taking any \"supplement\" (certainly not \"vitamins\"; enjoy the expensive piss) that is not protein or creatine. Creatine is hard to fuck up and protein powders can be certified. Supplements are 99% scam/placebo. To those who've wasted money: take no solace in the downboats I will inevitably receive from fellow jilted, uninformed consumers.\n\nOf course, most MMA fighters are not educated athletes, so the point is moot. \n\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Slow down... Just because he isn't going to be suspended 2 years doesn't mean he is going to be available anytime soon. Would be lucky to be fighting by the end of the year. ", 
        "The Dirty Bird returns!!!", 
        "What's to keep anyone who pops from using the \"tainted supplements\" excuse? Should be a method in place where supplements manufacturers can submit their products to USADA for approval.", 
        "they probably collect the leftover supplements from said fighter and test it to verify the presence of said illegal substance that the fighter tested positive for in the first place. \n\nthey can also likely test the fighters B sample and compare it to the supplement to make sure they were actually taking it.", 
        "I highly doubt they would test the leftover supplement. \n\nMy guess is they would independently source the supplement and test it, otherwise it would be far too easy to 'self contaminate' the supplement prior to USADA testing.", 
        "True. ", 
        ">What's to keep anyone who pops from using the \"tainted supplements\" excuse? \n\nEven Cyborg used that excuse. The only time it actually effects anything is if you can prove he supplement was tainted, and even then, there is still a punishment.", 
        "Man, tainted supplements are pretty common huh? (spoken in the language of sarcasm)", 
        "why are MMA fighters taking supplements knowing they are prone to being tainted and are unregulated?  because it is an easy way to take banned substances and cry ignorance when caught.\n\n\ntime to fix this loophole and ban them equally.  if you don't want to get banned, stop taking shady supplements.", 
        "Where can I get some tainted supplements too?", 
        "So, the best supplements would be the tainted kind then, right?\n\nI mean, you get all the benefits of cheating, but when you get caught, you point to the incorrectly labelled jar, and your punishment is revoked. Looks like the perfect crime to me.", 
        "They need to blacklist these stores that sell \"tainted\" supplements so other fighters don't get in trouble... lol. I love that everyone uses the supplement excuse. The only guy that told the truth was Hermes Franca and he was a pedophile... Pathetic", 
        "Say what you will about the UFC and Dana but fight pass is about as legit a product as you can get content wise. The web app blows ass but pretty much all pass (nhl Game Center, nfl Sunday ticket, etc) packages do anyway. ", 
        "About a month ago the director of fightpass said that they are working on fixing that stuff with the re-launch and acknowledged that the interface is bad.  It was on the MMA Hour.  He was very straightforward and got me really excited to see the changes to the service.", 
        "They just need a new developer though. This app is poorly organized and could look better.", 
        "It was much pretty much perfect when the live events werent all blocked. ", 
        "I have no problem with android app or xbox app", 
        "Try searching for something.", 
        "Android app works with Chromecast, too.", 
        "Samsung Smart TV app is almost unusably bad.", 
        "Works good for me.", 
        "Frustrates the shit out of me.", 
        "AppleTV app sucks balls too...\"There was an error loading your content\" or some bullshit. SOOOO damn frustrating!", 
        "https://youtu.be/b6gMkha37XA\n\nFor people without fight pass.", 
        "You think he's going to have to remove them from his channel?", 
        "Yea, and the new ones won't be on there ", 
        "A lot of classic Pride fights are still on YouTube and UFC bought the library (and the company) almost a decade ago, so maybe not.", 
        "If you don't want to watch to whole thing, i encourage everyone to at least watch the super fight between Grace Gundrum and Alyssa Mia Wilson. Starts around 1:00 on the youtube link. These two young ladies know how to grapple.", 
        "Definitely watching the whole thing, but that fight was great.", 
        "well dam! I wish I had know about that a long time ago", 
        "EBI is so massively fun to watch.  I don't think BJJ will ever take off as a popular sport, but this is by far the best BJJ show I've ever seen.  It's hard to match ADCC in terms of how big the stage is and the talent of the competitors, but with as developed the defensive game is these days, I'd rather watch the aggression in EBI.  ", 
        "Thank you, Korean Jesus!", 
        "Just finished watching, it was a great event", 
        "Now if only it would stop telling me video not available.", 
        "How many EBI events are on fight pass? I'm thinking about subscribing to either that or flowgrappling. ", 
        "I think they're planning 5-6 more this events this year. When you consider each of them was $19.99 ppv Fight Pass is a bargain. \n\nFlo have just taken on a tone of new people so expect their content to be expanding soon.", 
        "What submission does Hinger attempt at 12:40 in [the finale](http://www.ufc.tv/video/garry-tonon-vs-josh-hinger-ebi-3-final)? Is it viable in mma?", 
        "Stephens has gems in that record of his. Guy always comes to fight and always hit hard af.", 
        "Stephens is a great example of what a dark horse is", 
        "That's why I'm not convinced Barao-Stephens is heavily in Barao's favour. Stephens may have came up short a lot recently but it's to absolute monsters. His power is always a factor. Either way, the fight will give a good indication whether Barao is going to be a contender at FW or not.", 
        "> Guy always comes to fight\n\nThat is why I like him, as opposed to the other fighters who come to arrange flowers! ^jk", 
        "dude is an animal. hes one of the first ufc fighters i would want on my side in a street fight.", 
        "RDA 1.0 was way worst than RDA 2.0.", 
        "If you only look at past 5 performances RDA is probably the best fighter in the world. ", 
        "when did RDA 2.0 become a thing? \n\nafter the tibau fight?", 
        "When he started using steroids.", 
        "As far as i can remember after nurmagomedov ", 
        "He fought Khabib less than a year before he won the title", 
        "The Bendo KO", 
        "I think people started to notice his evolution when defeated Cerrone.\n\nBut it was the Bendo KO that opened everybody's eyes.", 
        "it was the shocking diamantling of mark bocek for me, I know his stand up leaves alot to be desired, but seeing this guy just blast fucking double him over and over again really opened my eyes. I beleive bocek out rassled jacob volkmann, so hes legit on the ground", 
        "idk about cerrone, i think more when he defeated pettis the way he did.  but yes you are correct about when him ko'ing benson was the beginning for sure.\npettis was just on the wheaties box and considered to be one of the top p4p. it was shocking to see pettis dominated so badly.", 
        "Def. His pace and presh was on a new level", 
        "I think you're underselling it lol, not sure there's a moment in that fight where he isn't landing a body hook into Pettis", 
        "I find it hard to believe that people only realized RDA was a beast when he beat Pettis. That was only two fights ago, and in a title shot that he had to earn.\n\nI would say the wins over Cerrone, Nate, and Bendo were all more than enough evidence that RDA had ascended to another level. ", 
        "First Cerrone fight. \n\nHonestly as soon as he came to the states to live he has been improving more and more ever since.\n\nEdit: He looked pretty good in the Robert Emerson fight too. He did break Emerson's leg in that fight though.", 
        "Everyone knows the US does the best PEDs", 
        "Yeah everyone in the US is on PEDs.\n\nOr it might be the fact that theres better gyms here, and world class coaches.", 
        "Nate's opinion matter's", 
        "About that, when did he move to the States?", 
        "After Clay Guida broke his jaw.", 
        "RDA 1.0 was the dude that got his jaw broken by Clay Guida", 
        "That's is likely the turning point.\n\nAfter the broken jaw he decided to upgrade.", 
        "Clay Guida, now THERE was a fighter.", 
        "I think a lot of people have forgotten just how long Dos Anjos was floating around in mediocrity before his stock skyrocketed in the past couple of years. \n\nWhen Dos Anjos made his debut BJ was still the LW champion and he hadn't even defended the belt against Kenny Florian yet. ", 
        "One of my favorite KO's of all time. I remember watching this back in the day and thinking Dos Anjos was doing pretty good until he got KO'd. He handled the loss really well too. Crazy to see him as champ now", 
        "Slow Motion of the first punch: http://i35.tinypic.com/zn0mty.gif", 
        "Did he get up right after that?\n\nI know it was a KO, but did he recover instantly?", 
        "Watch the main gif.. Up top.", 
        "tinypic? tsk tsk tsk.", 
        "Stephens > Dos Anjos > Diaz > McGregor \n\n*Jeremy Stephens should get the next title shot*", 
        "McGregor > Holloway > Stephens > Dos Anjos > Diaz > McGregor\n\n*Salad Fed Conor Vs Steak Fed Conor for the Mcbelt*", 
        "RIP Renan Barao", 
        "It's crazy how much RDA's striking has improved since then. Sick knock out though", 
        "HTML5 Video \n\n\n[Desktop version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/tkBtYpb/) (11.19%). \n\n\n[Mobile version](http://offsided.com/r/mma/tkBtYpb/?minified=true) (3.82%). \n\n\n----------------------------------- \n\n\n^[info](http://offsided.com/about_bots/) ^| ^[feedback](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=wonglik) ^| [^Upload](http://offsided.com/upload/)\n\n", 
        "I love it how in any given moment this sport can be turned on its head.", 
        "That was a Looney Tunes esque uppercut. I actually think Stephens power from his hands hasnt been the same in recent years @ FW. Yeah he knocked out Dennis but hes very chinny, gets dropped every fight and Jeremy really put him out with a brutal flying knee. He couldnt knockout Oliveira who isnt very durable and he hit him alot to the head. Elkins/Payan fights much of same story, but Jeremys been more technical @ FW with Del Fierro in his corner. His punching power was greater @ LW IMO, obviously he still packs a punch but i think weight cut has affected it", 
        "I know it was a while back, but I could have sworn that he rocked Cub Swanson a few times when they fought at FW.  I even thought that Jeremy was pretty close to getting a decision win in that fight", 
        "Quick question. Is it legal to grab the cage when swinging on an opponent? ", 
        "RDA looks quite different here compared to today, and i mean that in a complimentary way not an accusational way", 
        "Haha I remember that and calling it the Wii Bowling Uppercut as he looked like he was playing Wii Bowling", 
        "He grabs the fence for leverage while he feeds him punches.", 
        "lil Heathen has mad power.", 
        "I wonder if this is why conor was practicing uppercuts", 
        "First fight I remember with Stevens. It wasn't Marquardt's Tekken style, but maybe more the Mortal Kombat style.\n\nRDA spent some time not being an important fighter after that...", 
        "but that was \"before\" and  RDA was \"different\"", 
        "rda's stand up game was pure garbage back then", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Guida broke his jaw. That happened two years after this gif. ", 
        "Cormier-Jones.\n\n\nJones watching videos of Danny boy in the dark.\n\n\nCormier talking about Jones every interview he gives.\n\n\nConstant mentions, DM's & PM's on twitter.\n\n\nAt weigh-ins they can barely stop themselves from getting handsy.\n\n\nThey just cant quit each other.", 
        "[And the way they look at each other.](http://a.fssta.com/content/dam/fsdigital/fscom/UFC/images/2014/12/29/122914-UFC-jon-jones-daniel-cormier-LN-PI.vresize.1200.675.high.47.jpg)", 
        "DC asking to suck his dick and calling himself his pussy at the conference didnt help lol", 
        "Their bromance has even evolved to dirty talk:\n\nCormier: \"I'm the biggest lamest pussy you've ever met?\"\n\nJones: \"Are you the biggest pussy?\"\n\nCormier: \"Am I the biggest pussy you've ever met and you want me to suck your dick like you told me?\"\n\nJones: \"Oh yeah.\" (laughing)", 
        "No one will ever beat Rashad and Rampage in the dirty talk department.\n\n\"I'm gonna take you down and wrestle you from the top.\"\n\n\"I bet that would give you a boner.\"\n\n\"Yeah, but that's okay, because it would be in your mouth.\"", 
        "Fedor and Randy had the ultimate bromance.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gUjjknPwYb4", 
        "You forgot the passionate and intimate staring info each other's eyes, hands being wrapped around the throat. Jon really likes it. ", 
        "kinky bastards", 
        "Don't forget this [video](https://youtu.be/KEua2Z21MPs)", 
        "The king was not amused. Just sat there stoic as fuck. \n", 
        "Do people still care about Collin?", 
        "Is it ridiculous for me to say I think Jon had to be a little stoned for this? That is some funny shit. ", 
        "how have I never saw this. what the fuck did i just watch.", 
        "I love how the interviewer tries to put brakes on it (\"not that kind of presser\") and they just ignore her.", 
        "The interviewer is Megan Olivi, she's a a real dime piece!", 
        "i get what you're saying, but this is the kind of ufc meathead fan mentality that prevents alot of ppl getting on board with the sport\n\nlets be nice and not objectify woman all the time", 
        "Sorry all you would be SJW's. Let's take out the objectification and call her what she is. A beautiful and gorgeous woman inside and out. \n\nOn a side note, please do inform us on the link between using vocabulary such as dime piece and the vocabulary of calling one a ufc meathead fan. Thanks in advance, cheers. ", 
        "i don't think i communicated what i was really trying to say. here's another try. \n\ni think calling her a gorgeous woman inside and out is a great way to express that. \n\nBut when one uses terms like dime piece I see a contributing piece to what alot of people concieve ufc fan culture as- super broey. I know its not everyone's prerogative, but I really wish we can move away from that to achieve more legitamacy as a sport.\n\nso you're right maybe meathead isn't the correct term.\n", 
        "Cheers, I think you hit the nail on the head with prerogative. Thanks for your reply. ", 
        "having reread my response, i apologize if I came off as accusing you as being a meathead. cheers as well", 
        "That was like watching two fighters hug it out after a bout.", 
        "Too bad Jones and Cormier only had eyes for each other :P", 
        "This is fucking awesome", 
        "[I'm surprised no one mentioned the obvious](https://dynastyclothingstore.files.wordpress.com/2012/03/anderson-silva-kissing-nogueira.jpg)", 
        "http://img.mixedmartialarts.com/method=get&s=gay-jiujitsu.jpg", 
        "Shogun and Wanderlei are your two buddies that have been friends for a long time and get fucked up at parties and hug and touch each other A LOT ", 
        "I don't think there's another picture where an absolute demon like Wanderlei looks so sweet. ", 
        "Conor + Himself", 
        "With Artem sitting in the corner, crying.", 
        "Stroking it ", 
        "Love how he just replaced his suit jacket with the reebok one", 
        "Cain gonna hook up with Khabib to make DC jealous. quirky movie coming soon", 
        "i bet you could find some angles on conor and artem", 
        "[theres](http://imgur.com/tuZcK7i) [probably](http://imgur.com/tuZcK7i) [a](http://imgur.com/shwx7wt) [few](http://imgur.com/IEsWk2q) [good](http://imgur.com/mG8mSjG) [ones](http://imgur.com/tuZcK7i)", 
        "I'm dying. *dying* i tell you.", 
        "> [a](http://imgur.com/shwx7wt)", 
        "[Chris/Silva](http://www.graciemag.com/en/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/1005728_10151747652589479_1359001280_n.jpg)", 
        "What the fuck? Why are they kissing? Serious question ", 
        "Silva was fucking with him immensely. He got really close and their mouths touched. ", 
        "Watch their first weigh ins", 
        "It would be more romantic if their eyes were closed", 
        "Also if the smiling, heavily breathing creepers(Rogan, Dana & random guy filming) would kindly stop ogling & leave the room.", 
        "Weidman/Villante is the best bromance hands down. Have you even seen an embedded?", 
        "Agreed with this, the bromance between them two is great haha", 
        "Pretty much the majority of Team Alpha Male, sans Silly Dilly.", 
        "Word is that TJ left TAM because he's a bromophobe.", 
        "#1 Bromance has to be Nick and Nate. They constantly give shoutouts to each other, they intentionally stay out of each others' weight class, they're tight AF", 
        "I would watch them star in [Two Brothers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ziXpIPAhD4) in IMAX. ", 
        "Too literal in the brother sense. I feel a true bromance should have a strong undertone of possible homosexuality", 
        "incest", 
        "And I'm out.", 
        "Shogun and Wanderlei would give them a run for thei money. ", 
        "Or Wanderlei and Chuck. He actually said he wanted to fuck Chuck in television.", 
        "He also wanted to suck Chael Sonnen's blood ", 
        "Donald cerrone and Leonard Garcia used, and I don't know, maybe still do, live together train together and are besy friends. They own a ranch Together, I think. Besties.", 
        "Weidman-Wonderboy.", 
        "Chris Leben and his demons", 
        "Uriah Hall and John Howard spending 15 minutes hugging and complimenting each other", 
        "Dc looks like a proud father", 
        "Just let me bang, bro?", 
        "McGregor & Pony Tail", 
        "Koshcheck and fitch.", 
        "Chael and Lindland are pretty tight, at least as much as white people affection dictates.", 
        "Cormier and everyone he trains with.  He seems to really enjoy those romps on the mat with Cain as well.", 
        "Franklin/Gurgel.\n\nHow do you compete with that?\n\nhttp://imgur.com/GjwSlYI", 
        "For all the testosterone fueled, red-neckish \"thanks to Jesus for the KO\" stereotypes MMA suffers from, it's nice to see this interracial, same-sex couple shine a light on just how progressive this sport really is.", 
        "I tell you this.... when you push yourself as hard as these guys do day in and day out. There is no other bond quite like it. ", 
        "Canderley and Shogun\nAnderson and Noguiera", 
        "Does anyone have the gif of DC picking Rockhold up off the ground?", 
        "Rory MacDonald and Mike Ricci were pretty serious a few years ago, almost got into a fight over a pair of red pants ", 
        "[Conor + Urijah](https://youtu.be/nZJ8olrdqis)", 
        "[Just three heterosexual men getting a workout.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h8lW6ZRwh8I)", 
        "Someone on here said that they've trained at AKA and they're actually not that close, for what that's worth. ", 
        "BJ and Hughs, Wanderlei and Shogun, Chuck and Tito. All you johnny come latelys need to look up some history", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Uh, DC is a former Olympic wrestler and Rockhold has a black belt in BJJ. I think you maybe misunderstood what Nate meant by touchbutt.", 
        "Meisha-Caraway", 
        "People who use that idiotic term need to stop.", 
        "why is it idiotic", 
        "It's a portmanteau, which is dumb by itself.\n\nBut more importantly, it is a word that mocks the idea of male friendship by implying that male friendships are some weak parody of romantic relationships instead of meaningful in a different way.\n\nIt's insulting bullshit. Pop culture has all these examples of elevating female friendship as a respected thing, but any time men are friends we have to hear that fucking moronic word and the accompanying homophobic jokes.\n\nShit needs to stop.", 
        "I never thought it was or heard it used in negative way before, I see where ur coming from tho", 
        "That's the thing, it's not directly negative. It's negative because every single time it's used, it's with a patronizing tone of \"isn't it *funny* that men can be friends? It's almost like a *real* relationship!\".", 
        "I hate Pena but I'd like to see that fight.", 
        "Pena is like a worse version of miesha, though", 
        "What is it with her? ", 
        "She seems like an awful person (someone already linked the drunken escapade), and she fights like someone button-mashing a video game.  Just wild, skill-free, flailing punches that infuriate you when she somehow wins.", 
        "Like Paige VanZant?", 
        "Except for the awful person part.  People around here seem to really want to hate her because she hasn't done her charity shit yet, but really...not shaving one's head for charity =/= bombastic hubris and multiple (potentially felonious) assaults.", 
        "Also having multiple phones found on your person that aren't yours.  For no apparent reason.", 
        "Here: http://mmajunkie.com/2016/01/bodycam-footage-ufc-fighter-julianna-pena-drunkenly-explains-self-before-arrest\n\n\nIts nice to see that miesha doesn't have a problem fighting a former teammate / friend. I believe they don't train together anymore since Miesha moved to xtremecoture full time. But I didn't hear pena mentioned in the interview.", 
        "lol, I've never heard the part where she says \"I had to defend myself. Defend yourself at all times.\"", 
        "Oh wow! Thanks for that. I don't even know what to say about that haha", 
        "\"The champion isn't calling out anyone.\"\n\nDuh. Why the fuck would she? People flock to fight the champ, no the other way around.", 
        "I think she dodged a bullet here.  Ronda started her hatred of Miesha after she said something along the lines of \"she is changing weight classes, but she doesn't deserve a title shot, there are people who are in line before her\".  The same could be said here with several fighters chomping at the bit to fight Miesha, but Ronda would probably get a fight off the bat.\n\n\nIt could also be due to Miesha getting older and wanting some money before exiting the game.", 
        "Miesha Tate's relentless Bitter Bitch Syndrome is what made Rousey hate her. \n\nThey had a rivalry going into the first fight, but after it was over, Rousey never said another word about Tate. Tate, in the meantime, spent the next two years talking shit about Rousey every chance she could get. Tate just never got over talking all the trash she did prior to the first fight, and then losing in decisive fashion. And yet, somehow, people were still surprised that Rousey was \"mean to her\" on TUF. \n\nThen again, casuals didn't watch Strikeforce, so TUF was the only thing they knew.", 
        "sums it up well and you getting down voted by every ignorant person on this sub, sums it up as well.\n\n", 
        "There was also Miesha's jackass boyfriend who kept trying to instigate a confrontation on TUF.", 
        "In other words - Miesha Tate is a true champion. Will fight anyone.", 
        "In other words - Miesha Tate wants that Rousey fight. Easily the largest fight of her career, certainly out of all these other available options, and she won't even have to promote her way into it being the Champion.", 
        "Plus she gets another title shot after Ronda loses to Holm again", 
        "I love Miesha. She is so beautiful and seems like such a nice person. She looks so happy in this interview. There is some type of glow about her. I'm happy to see her as champion. It is well deserved.", 
        "Creepy. As. Fuck.", 
        "what is creepy about what i said? i was complimenting her and saying i'm happy the belt is hers. over react much? ", 
        "> There is some type of glow about her\n\nBreaking News! Miesha Tate is pregnant and will be out of action for 12-16 months.", 
        ">and seems like such a nice person.\n\nUnless you are a gas station cashier.", 
        "You sound like the type of person to get a Miesha waifu pillow and paste a picture of her face on a fleshlight.", 
        "At least he's not the type that uses his roommates fleshlight ", 
        "Dude, its been like a year, why do you keep bringing it up. I said sorry didn't I?", 
        "Well thanks for the weekend project.", 
        "Is that...I can do that?", 
        "Is there something wrong with that?", 
        "And if there is, then why does it feel so right?", 
        "Personally I'd get the boobies fleshlight if I'm putting Miesha face on. The reebok gear doesn't make them look nice, but you can really tell they have some serious mass. ", 
        "they looked just fine before the holly fight. shes stacked..", 
        "I'd personally go with the booty but I would throw the boobs out either.", 
        "No way. I did the same with Sexyama. ", 
        "Well said. I think Miesha finally got her head straight and really focused in on the 'champion's mindset'. She's in the zone!", 
        "Can we please get a painted on swimsuit photo shoot with Miesha? I'll painter her for free using my fingers.", 
        "Miesha Tate classy as fuck and enjoying her well deserved time in the spotlight. I'm so glad she is champion I've loved watching her fight for years. ", 
        "I love this imaginary version of Miesha Tate as the classy girl becuase she smiled pretty and acted nice on TUF.\n\nThere's a reason why there's a growing list of other female fighters who don't like her. Started with Tara LaRosa, then Tonya Evinger, then Rousey, then Zingano, then Correia.\n\nAnybody who has paid any attention to Miesha Tate over the years knows that \"classy\" is probably the last thing you could call her. A classy person wouldn't have spent two years antagonizing somebody who beat her in a fight, or use somebody's face to get up at the end of a round, etc\n\nThere are few other female fighters in MMA that seem to be as universally disliked as Miesha Tate. Then you realize her only real *friend* in WMMA is Julianna Pena, and all the pieces fall into place, lol.", 
        "People just like her ass and think she's a great person because of it.", 
        "People already forgot back when Miesha was highly criticized as fake.", 
        "http://gfycat.com/VictoriousActiveChickadee", 
        "That might not have even been intentional. I'm not saying I liked seeing it or anything, but if I remember correctly Miesha ate a bunch of Cat's knees to end that fight and I have to say I haven't seen her push off from someone's face to get off the mat after a round is over since. \n\nJust because I say she's classy doesn't mean she can't have made mistakes and learned from them? I could literally write 5000+ words on this gif alone. It's reddit, so I won't. For all we know, Cat was talking shit and Miesha just didn't pull a Ronda and whine about it to the press afterward. She just pushed off her face, lost the fight, and didn't have shit to say about it iirc. I don't think Cat had much to say about it after, considering she fucked up her knee so badly in it that she was out -- what -- 16 months? Over a year -- something crazy like that. And we all know how Zigano/Rousey went. Compared to Tate/Rousey I & II, idk... Tate has made mistakes, sure, but she's adapted and done her level best to be less of a bitch. You have to remember that back when this fight happened, Miesha and Ronda were on their whole stupid \"who can be a better bitch heel\" kick. Ronda won that fight, lost her belt to St. Holm, and now look at Miesha. She has evolved so much in her game and that really says something. Or was the only person that noticed she wasn't wearing her skirtdex for her title win? ", 
        "Everytime this is posted I ask has there ever been another instance where Meisha did that purposefully before or after the Zingano fight? Why do people make one act the rule instead of the exception? Is it so hard to believe she was exhausted and accidentally did that?", 
        "I think it's cause like a month after the fight Zingano was speaking on it and she said Miesha and her camp were talking shit and being rude around her leading up to the fight and Caraway supposedly elbowed Cat in the back of the head on purpose. I guess that shit kinda stuck with some people so that face smushing stood out ", 
        "People are going to find whatever reason to hate on a fighter. But I'd rather look at someone's career overall. Rousey has shown a career's worth of hate worthy moments. ", 
        "Miesha did rant about the stoppage.\n\nhttp://www.mmafighting.com/2013/7/25/4554400/morning-report-miesha-tate-rips-kim-winslow-ruining-peoples-lives-ufc-dana-white", 
        "because it was a shit stoppage she was literally shooting on cat as the fight was stopped look how one of her legs in back and  how she steps a penetration step with her right leg before dropping down. Now does that mean I think she would have recovered and won or even come close to completing the takedown but it could have gone another 10 seconds \nhttp://giphy.com/gifs/cat-finale-tate-915oVgZbLe8iA\n", 
        "Awesome! Just like Holly was. Ready for anyone.", 
        "Just like Holly thought she was* :P", 
        "And Ronda!", 
        "Are we all just going to conveniently forget Ronda calling out Betch (never beaten a top 5 fighter) Corriea?\n\nthe memory pool in this sub is damn shallow.\n\nedit:\nholy shit, did I forget how heavy the Ronda nut hugging is in this sub? \nyes, yes I did.", 
        "Rousey asked for Correia because Correia kept talking all that shit and was getting personal with it. \n\nGiven the fact that Rousey beat *every other contender before her*, often on short notice like with Sarah McMann, I think Rousey is allowed to get one \"personal\" fight without us trashing her over it.", 
        "Ronda is a bad bitch who would prob best Tate 9 outta 10 times but the only battle Ronda is having right now is whether to get chicken nuggets or the Big Mac", 
        "Sure, but it's not as if that was the case for all (or any) of her other fights. I mean we don't know exactly what is happening behind the scenes, but until Bethe and Holly Ronda fought the top contenders in her division as they came up to challenge (with the exception of Miesha due to Cat being injured).", 
        "Are you forgetting that she called out Holm too? \n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LDRKbHQNXmM (at ~1:10)\n\nAre you also forgetting that Bethe has been calling Ronda out for months at that point? \n\nShe even considered fighting at a month's notice (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bxeB0VSMx4) so to imply that she wouldn't be ready for anyone is insane.\n", 
        "calling out Holm who also wasn't in the top 5  at the time just strengthens my point.\n\nand\nit doesn't matter who calls you out.  your the champ, everyone calls you out", 
        "who? ", 
        "I mean so was Ronda with the exception of Cyborg and even then it was kinda rumored it was going to be the next fight after Holm.(I remember Dana saying that the fight cancelled some up coming plans?). It's not that special. ", 
        "Everyone wants that UFC200 mulah.", 
        "I would like to see her defend once against somebody she hasn't fought yet before a rematch with Holm or Ronda. Assuming that happens and tate defends, do you think the UFC would ever do a ronda/holly fight for number one contender status? Or are they too big to not fight for the belt?", 
        "Ronda's return will be a huge draw and Miesha is a really good and probably the most marketable matchup for her... I honestly think the UFC won't risk losing the belt to someone like Zingano or Nunez before Ronda's return and they will make Miesha wait for Ronda. There is simply too much money to make from Rousey vs Holm/Tate and I don't see a Tate vs Holm rematch so soon, nor Ronda fighting for anything less than the belt.", 
        "Remember when Bryan Caraway was considered the worst kinda scum for elbowing Cat Zingano in the head during their weigh-ins?", 
        "Tate is similar to Lawler, both veterans, both gritty, both don't talk much,  both very beatable. tate doesn't have the split decision luck that Robbie has though.", 
        "Tate doesn't talk much? On what planet? \n\nThere's a laundry list of other fighters who hate Miesha Tate exactly *because* she talks so much.", 
        "And for crap that her boyfriend does.", 
        "Robbie ain't got shit on Benson.", 
        "Except Tate talks much.", 
        "OP might have meant \"talk trash,\" which Tate isn't known for aside from with Ronda, and that was mostly Ronda really.", 
        "Not true at all. \n\nMiesha *started* the trash talk with Rousey, and she was the one that made it personal. Not to mention there's a long list of fighters (Tara LaRosa, Tonya Evinger, Cat Zingano, Bethe Correia among them) she has trash talked.\n\nMiesha Tate is one of the most disliked female fighters among her peers, for exactly the reason that she is a trash talker.", 
        "> Miesha started the trash talk with Rousey\n\nno she didn't. it started back before the UFC when Miesha was champion and Ronda showed her no respect and disparaged her as champion and said she'd destroy her. Ronda started it", 
        "Hopefully you have some soap to wash the shit smell off your arm after pulling that out of your ass, lol.\n\nWhat Ronda Rousey said was [\"Miesha Tate did kinda call me out on Twitter, so I'm considering some extra fights fights down at 135 and slapping that title out of her hands\"](https://youtu.be/D0EDBnZ_UEs?t=442)\n\nYeah \"disparaged\", lol.", 
        "Maybe I'm only able to recall recent Miesha. I didn't follow her career before her fight against Rousey in SF and recently she has been very uninterested in that stuff aside from barbs for promotional value and trying to get fights, at least from the things I see, but I'm also not the type to follow any celebrities or fighters on Twitter or Instagram and the like, just doesn't interest me so perhaps I miss a lot. But I won't argue with you as you seem to have a far more clear memory of her trash talking history than I do.", 
        "everyone is beatable. ronda, conor, etc.", 
        "What about Jon Jones", 
        "lol no you're right he's the only human in history that can never be truly defeated. fuck outta here with this haha", 
        "Hey man I hope you're right, I cheer for it every time but seems like the only person he can't defeat is himself. ", 
        "so far yeah. we'll see", 
        "Make it a championship scramble.", 
        "In a 6 (wo)man Battle Royal?", 
        "She's being smart. Let them all fight each other while she travels around doing press and making some $$$", 
        "used to think miesha was such a mean person because she always has that look on her face. now that i hear her interviews and press conferences, im really digging this girl. shes a lot more composed than i thought she would be. shes an awesome champ.", 
        "Miesha-Nunes makes perfect sense.", 
        "Miesha seems very reluctant to face Ronda. I can't really blame her, either. ", 
        "\ud83d\udc8b\ud83d\udc8b\ud83d\udcaa\ud83d\udc8b\ud83d\udcaa\ud83d\udc8b\ud83d\udcaa\ud83d\udcaf\ud83d\udcaf\ud83d\udc8b\ud83d\udcaf\ud83d\udcaf\ud83d\udc51\ud83d\udc51\ud83d\udc51\nShe's dreamy lol", 
        "She's glowing. Bryan Caraway red boxer shorts night every night.", 
        "She should do it to hype the division again. At the octagon interview I hoped she called out rousey with something like Cormier did... \n\n\"Ronda Rousey get your shit together m waiting...\"\n", 
        "I think Meisha is one of my favorite people in MMA, awesome person.\n\nIn saying that, if fighters want more money the \"I will fight whoever they put in front of me\" line really gets old and does fighters no favors in terms of marketability and bargaining power. ", 
        "You will loose Miesha, but I respect you very much as a true champ!\n\n", 
        "I don't think anyone in wmma can hold on to the belt for any length of time now, except maybe Ronda if she learned and improved after this loss.", 
        "Or Holm, if you grant her the same condition.", 
        "Yeah, but I think there's more working against Holm.\n\n\nMMA has proven over and over that's it's better to be good on the ground and have to work on striking, than the other way around.\n\nThe other difference is Holm is not a finisher, she never was in boxing, and she's not in MMA. If she can land that big flush head kick or get someone to run at her than she can. That gives most of her opponents 3-5 rounds to find a way to exploit her weakness.  \n\nWhereas Ronda has one of the highest finish rates in MMA.\n\nSo all that and age, makes me favour Ronda being the one to hold the belt.", 
        "Tate has done some incredible PR work to get people to forget what an asshole she was during the TUF season.  Ronda also playing the part of an asshole probably helped her, but she was unlikable as hell as she Mean Girls'd her way through the season.", 
        "She didn't do anything any other fighter wouldn't do when faced with someone talking shit and being disrespectful to you everyday for 6 weeks. ", 
        "...Except she started it, kept instigating it, and was openly antagonistic.  She was like an older sibling that constantly picks on the younger one, then when the younger one finally hits back the older one cries and acts like it came out of nowhere.", 
        "I think either you're looking too far into it or not deep enough at all. All I'm saying is that it's the fight game, dude, and it's common if not expected for some of these fighters to try and get under each others skin. Of course there's a line to cross, but I don't think Miesha crossed that line at any point. She tried to push her buttons, just like Urijah Faber does to Cruz, or how Cruz did to Dillashaw. How Joanna Jedrzejczyk does it to all her opponents. How Conor basically built his career. The Diaz brothers, who are insanely popular. But why is Miesha \"an asshole\"? For what, being fake nice to Ronda to get on her nerves or pulling a prank on her and her team? Come on, dude. You're reaching. Even her whole fiasco with the gas station lady on her personal time is the worse than anything she's done on camera, and she clearly regretted and apologized for that. Unless you're willing to call anyone who participates in feuds in the fight game an asshole, then you're being a little biased.", 
        "That shit goes both ways, just like the start of the whole feud in the first place.  This is common knowledge, but the Rousey hate has obscured things as of late.", 
        "Well, no Rousey hate on my end. I'm big fan of Ronda Rousey. All I'm saying is that Miesha Tate never really handled the feud in a way that we haven't seen any other fighter handle a feud. She responded to trash talk, tried to push her buttons, and get under her skin. Who wouldn't do that, especially in her situation? I certainly wouldn't think her an asshole for anything she did, in fact, I'm actually impressed with her even having the patience to be fake nice and cordial. Ronda called her out for it, but no one ever said Miesha was trying to trick people into thinking she liked Ronda, she was just trying to keep her cool and kill her with kindness. That's probably harder to do than to throw tantrums and outburts when it comes to someone you really don't like.  ", 
        "I have a lot of respect for Miesha for the way she handled the second loss, even admitting Ronda was the better fighter.", 
        "That's part of the game, Tate just knows how to turn the switch off like a good/smart athlete should.  It's pretty much the same in all sports. ", 
        "Ducking Cyborg confirmed.", 
        "This thread is ridiculous.  ", 
        "I didn't realize Tate was so polarizing.\n\nIt's people hating on her for some stupid shit on TUF or Caraway or people going full fanboy.\n\n", 
        "I'm not a Miesha hater, but highly upvoted in-the-moment slobber like \"I love Miesha. She is so beautiful and seems like such a nice person\" is embarrassing.  Her history with Ronda is pretty much tit-for-tat all down the line.", 
        "I got here later than you, so when I showed up it was an even mix of the kind of posts your talking about and fairly arbitrary hate.\n\nThat's why it seemed so odd.", 
        "Good. It's kind of ridiculous for champs to call out their opponents any way. Except cases like DC and Jones, of course.", 
        "I can't find Joe Schilling's comment, but I was scrolling through the comments and it sounds like he offered to throw her some cash to help her keep the belt.\n\nBrandon Vera is getting in on it too...\n\n>brandonthetruthvera@joe_schilling I'm down to match that\ud83d\udc4d\ud83c\udffe\ud83d\udcaa\ud83c\udffe\ud83d\udc4a\ud83c\udffe Let the CHAMP keep her belt. #nothinbutlovechamp @tiffanytimebomb Ouss", 
        "either buy the thing and dont talk about it and send it back later, dont have to self promote out of the situation\n\nvery degrading", 
        "I'd going to give you karma to offset your downvotes because I'm such a fantastic guy.", 
        "Not sure why a fantastic guy like you is getting downvoted.  Have an upvote.  Also, everybody please upvote me since I was nice enough to upvote somebody else.  Thank you in advance for the upvotes.\n\nEDIT - WOW.  Reddit gold!  Thank you!  I know I deserve it, but didn't expect it.  ", 
        "This isn't circlejerk", 
        "Thank you for the upvote.  ", 
        "That was me, because I'm such a fantastic guy.", 
        "Lol that worked out", 
        "Oh noes, I'm running out of karmas.", 
        "Y U SELF PROMOTE BRO?", 
        "BEACUSE I'M A NICE GUY LOVE ME", 
        "How often do you smokes with cigarettes?", 
        "I don't smoke cigarettes because that would be bad for the people around me. And I'm a nice guy. ^^^Love ^^^me.", 
        "I can witness you, if that helps? ", 
        "[All aboard the downvote express!](http://i.imgur.com/CrUXvsn.gif)", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/lAtZIC5.gif", 
        "The only thing being degraded is the promotion that hasn't paid her. You think she's going to curl up in a ball and cry in self pitty because people are willing to help her out after getting fucked over? LEL", 
        "No they're being nice.", 
        "You're kind of a cunt ", 
        "I agree with you", 
        "200 plates of dick for breakfast for saying dumb shit is fair I think", 
        "Literally the dumbest person on Reddit, gg.", 
        "And you must be super smart with that great comment ", 
        "Found creatiff's second account. ", 
        "This raises awareness... ", 
        "> @joeroganThis is some fucking bullshit. Infuriating. \n\nThis is awareness", 
        "Raised by the awareness raised by the gal. ", 
        "Because the first person offered, the second also offered, either to jump on the goodwill train if you want to be cynical, or because she was inspired by seeing someone else do it if you don't.\n\nEither way it's good for Tiffany. ", 
        "So only Joe Rogan is allowed to bring awareness?  ", 
        "holy shit this /r/ is brainless as fck. \n\ndo you see joe \"throwing her some money???\" this is what i mean with how you raise awareness", 
        "Ahhhhhh I forgot awareness is legal tender now.  ", 
        "So you are not allowed to raise awareness AND offer to help with money? Huh, I never knew that.", 
        "according to his logic you can only talk about the homeless but actually helping them? nah bad shit", 
        "she isnt homeless, nor asking for your sympathy, help OR your change, shes selling her belt to make a point. if you think that post is a cryout for help and some money youre a dumb shit. but let me be the dumbest person on reddit as long as i can dissociate from this band of idiots\n", 
        "You're really a special kind of stupid.", 
        "You're dumb because of your conviction. You're upset over some ridiculous shit and that makes you an idiot. Who the fuck pissed in your cheerios? ", 
        "You are the dumbest person on Reddit, at least according to your posts in this thread.  Damn, dude", 
        "The concept of analogies seems to be lost on you. The bullshit you're spewing makes you look like a complete fucking idiot.", 
        "How do you figure she's selling her belt \"to make a point\"?  She specifically says she needs the money to pay off debts.  If you were in debt, would you rather someone just talk about how it sucks or offer to give you some cash and help you out?", 
        "aaaand joe rogan just reposted it. RIP LF\n\nedit: https://www.instagram.com/p/BDFbImXJyIw/", 
        "sponsored by onnit.. pony up rogan ", 
        "He had to. Otherwise people would start asking how much sponsorship money she's getting from ONNIT! THAT'S OH-ENN-ENN-AYE-TEE-DOTCOM! BUY MY PILLS!", 
        "Not just pills, Jesus Christ man it's total human optimization.  ", 
        "Well she is wearing an onnit top... Haha but seriously good on Joe for exposing this further, shits fucked up ", 
        "accompanied by OPs pic:\n\n> This is some fucking bullshit. Infuriating. \n> \u202a#\u200eRepost\u202c @joe_schilling\n> \u30fb\u30fb\u30fb\n> Cough cough. Been saying it for years FUCK LIONFART #Repost @tiffanytimebomb with @repostapp.\n> \u30fb\u30fb\u30fb\n> Unfortunately it has come to this. It's a shame, but I have more than one and will win more in the future. \u202a#\u200eAndStill\u202c \u202a#\u200eUnpaid\u202c \u202a#\u200eWorldChampion\u202c \u202a#\u200eiThoughtProsGotPaid\u202c \u202a#\u200eheartbroken\u202c Thanks for everything @LionFight\n\nI'm glad he did that, the more exposure the better.", 
        "Hasn't he advocated lionfight? I got turned on to via him talking about how exciting the fights were on his podcast with John Wayne Parr. ", 
        "It's the closest to real muay thai shown in the US.", 
        "Yeah i think he had about 3 or 4  fighters sponsored by Onnit around that time fighting for LFP, including Tiffany. No doubt he was trying to get eyes on the promotion predominantly promoting his company. ", 
        "Pretty fucked up he can just change his opinion like that when new facts come to light. Does nobody have any goddamn loyalty anymore?", 
        "No the problem is that he says \"Cough cough. Been saying it for years FUCK LIONFART.\"\n\nReally Joe?", 
        "That is Joe Schillings words not Rogans.", 
        "They need viewers and ticket sales to make money to pay the fighters. It's good.", 
        "It's the exact opposite of fucked up.\n\nedit: Sorry bro, I'm stupid.", 
        "Is also joke.", 
        "I should have known that. My bad.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Woosh.", 
        "You have too much faith in /r/mma's sarcasmometer.", 
        "This is a good comment.  Do we really need to put \"/s\" on the obvious ones?", 
        "You'd be surprised", 
        "No, you'd be surprised. ", 
        "I'm surprised.", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers", 
        "I listened to the podcast but can't recall that far back. How is Lionfight?", 
        "He's done 2 podcasts with JWP. And in all fairness to joe, he just talked about how exciting the fights were and not about the organization.", 
        "sounds shitty so far", 
        "The fights themselves are outstanding, but that's the problem. The fighters put on incredible shows and are some of the most elite strikers in the world, but they're not getting paid. Lionfight isn't hugely popular (which is a shame when you think about how many \"just bleed\" fans there are that hate the ground game in MMA), but they should be able to pay their fighters, especially their *fucking champions*.", 
        "There should be a fund me fight organization, fans crowd source the fights and fund them, money goes almost all directly to the fighters. It would be cool but have no idea how it would work.", 
        "I'm down how about you and me become the new Dana and Lorenzo?", 
        "Triple post ", 
        "I'm down how about you and me become the new Dana and Lorenzo?", 
        "I'm down how about you and me become the new Dana and Lorenzo?", 
        "If fans give all their money directly to the fighters, noone is going to pay for a ticket/PPV, and the organization loses all incentive to put on the fights. Good luck trying to organize fights without a promotion that has a vested interest in running the event.", 
        "I really doubt that would work.  ", 
        "There is \"Tip a Fighter\".  MMA Roasted had it as a sponsor a while back", 
        "Unrealistic ", 
        "If the money goes almost entirely to the fighters, who are going to pay the judges, the refs, the people to set up arena, the people to broadcast it, the people to work security, the cut men, the ringside doctors, and so on and so on.", 
        "They could still make money from tickets and broadcast deals.", 
        "Lol what's it like in your world?", 
        "So wait, you think fans are going to pool their money to pay the fighters, and then also pay for their tickets? Never going to happen.", 
        "One of the best places to see Muay Thai rules fights. I haven't kept up with recent events, but seems like behind the scenes they're not running smoothly. ", 
        "I'm always up for some good Muay Thai! Yeah, it's a shame they sound like real cunts.", 
        "It's not always just a promoter being cunty, sometimes it's because everything is unravelling.", 
        ">\\#AndStill \\#Unpaid\n\nFucking sad shit right there", 
        "If coker has half a brain with bellator kickboxing here is an easy signing ", 
        "muay thai isn't kickboxing though", 
        "Is it an easy signing if she's still under contract with LF? Are 2 months non-payment enough for the contract to enforce releasement? Don't know about US labor law...", 
        "well im not sure what LF contracts look like.. but recent former champ Ognjen Topic was recently fighting in other promotions like MAX Muay Thai. I feel like we don't see as many restrictive contracts in KB and MT besides Glory.", 
        "If they even have a contract", 
        "As if they could afford a lawsuit, when they dont pay their stars", 
        "Maybe they can afford it because they don't pay their stars\n", 
        "If they can't afford to pay their fighters they would probably take some form of buyout", 
        "Releasement is a tricky legal area. ", 
        "ONNIT ALPHA BRAIN LEGAL ADVICE \nuse code word: ONNNNNIT to get 1.3% off your legal battles \n", 
        "I laughed so hard", 
        "It's nearly as complicated as bird law. ", 
        "Tiffany's marketability should make quick work of releasement ", 
        "Not if you use prune juice", 
        "Isn't not paying a breach of contract?", 
        "Has to be.", 
        "That shit is ridiculous. Hope this gets traction and she gets her $$$", 
        "isn't this illegal to not pay your workers", 
        "I don't know how it is set up with Lion Fight but usually fighters aren't employees, they are independent contractors.", 
        "And a lot of contracting jobs I've done in the past have net 90 days for billing. It sucks but it's used a lot.", 
        "Hell, as freelance writer I would spend 6+ months tracking down some clients for payment. It's hell on the finances.", 
        "With their ticket prices they shouldn't have to shit all over the fighters, I think they were like 75-100 when I was looking last month ", 
        "Don't get me wrong, it's totally on them to meet their obligations, but just because they have money coming in doesn't mean they're making money. They wouldn't be the first enterprise like this to dive into debt early and never quite get their head above water. Still though, paying fighters seems like priority one to me, seeing as this kind of terrible PR is the result. ", 
        "I love how you are being downvoted for suggesting not all business ventures are profitable, even though you are also saying at the same time that paying fighters should be the top priority. Then the guy below you is upvoted for saying the same thing.\n\nThis subreddit is so fucking stupid sometimes, lol.", 
        "It's not a fighters problem. They should be paid. I doubt the promoter is selling their personal belongings to make ends meet. No one made them put on a show.", 
        "This. I animate stuff. Regardless of the success of my product im paying my voice over guy and my writers. \n\nThey're not taking a risk i am. ", 
        "I never said anything to the contrary. ", 
        "Paying your employees is  priority 1 for every business. \n\n", 
        "They aren't just employees, they are also the product. \n\nIt would be like a zoo deciding the best way to save money is to stop feeding it's Lions. \n\nThis is moronic. I hope she gets her money and more, I also hope this forces Lion Fight to either close it's doors or change its ways. ", 
        "They also have a TV deal with AxsTv.", 
        "Gofundme has just been setup for her by a high level striking coach: https://www.gofundme.com/23ut5wvy", 
        "360/500$ already raised! ", 
        "500$ is a starting bid price, she probably wants/needs more than that.", 
        "Yeah, figures.  500 seems really low", 
        "She's probably just trying to pay her bills for the month. Proud people don't like having to ask for it accept help, so she probably is just trying to cover her minimum.", 
        "Bump.   This should be the top comment.  ", 
        "Got $5 from me...", 
        "Just gave her the last $55. Hope it helps", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah no secrets here hahaha", 
        "Wow good for you man, I'd give you gold if I could afford it. \ud83d\ude2d ", 
        "Anyone have a link to the auction? I can't find it.", 
        "I always wanted to walk around with a big gold belt that says LION FIGHT on it. Seriously, fuck this town I'm grocery shopping in style yeah bitch so what, I got food stamps LION FIGHT", 
        "You get free lunchmeat from the deli at Food Lion if you wear the belt in there.  ", 
        "That's  a shame. At least she's making some noise about it now. [Girl is marketable, too](https://www.instagram.com/p/BBsesuZpYqy/)", 
        "Step up your game, the picture she posted with the belt is more marketable than that pic. Literally and also in the weird raunchy way we mean.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "that's what good head movement and footwork does.", 
        "Very marketable", 
        "Am I a dick if I think her ears take away points?", 
        "yes", 
        "Is that fair, whatever happened to different strokes for different folks?", 
        "if you had just said 'not my type' no one would have questioned it. but since you went with 'ears kind of icky', yeah, dickish.", 
        "So what if he doesn't like her ears?", 
        "Poor hygiene is a good reason to not like someone. Ears is kinda petty ", 
        "Not a thing\n\nBut you just don't say it. If you offer your opinion forward add \"am I an asshole for. ..\" were allowed to say yes", 
        "> were allowed to say yes\n\nCan you give a reason why he's an asshole then?\n", 
        "Because not liking someone's appearance over their ears if there's nothing really wrong with them is kinda of an asssholeish thing. Again, if you just have your own private thing or whatever I don't care but if you're gonna say something about it", 
        "I'd market that in a heartbeat.", 
        "I marketed too soon and now I want a sandwich.", 
        "Market it so hard", 
        "Market it gently, then hard, then harder....yes..YES...YES! OH GOOD GOD", 
        "i come to this sub for this", 
        "[this](http://41.media.tumblr.com/d2abd7d609c049b466d1630de76c45bd/tumblr_njmh0etW5Z1rlo1q2o1_1280.jpg)", 
        "She would be so disappointed in my marketing skills", 
        "Better bone up on my marketing skills.\n\nhttp://imgur.com/PvcKA09", 
        "Or learn how to better market your boning skills", 
        "She should be getting lucrative for sure.", 
        ">Squirt obey your thirst\n\nIDK what this is advertising but I want some", 
        "Soda pretty decent....with vodka", 
        "Can't say the same with gin ", 
        "Add tequila and make it a paloma.", 
        "GoFundMe page to buy it for her: https://www.gofundme.com/23ut5wvy", 
        "LF about to tank?", 
        "The CEO of lion fights instagram is @scottlionfight", 
        "Everyone should upvote the crap out of this. That dude is king of the scumbags.\n", 
        "Peoples use of hashtags has become a mess.", 
        "**\\#ReleasementTheHashtag**", 
        "This\n\n/I miss fark", 
        "Nobody misses fark. Fuck them, fuck Drew and fuck their shadowbanning. I'm not salty anymore, I just think, fuck them.", 
        "\\#truth", 
        "Typical Canadian.", 
        "I think you'd be surprised. ", 
        "Oh what's next? \"Sorry?\".", 
        "\\#Lies", 
        "Will you take Drake and Bieber back already? They've been making us look bad for too long.", 
        "Do we still keep Robin Black?", 
        "Keep him.", 
        "I'm not surprised, motherfucker.", 
        "Yeah, in retrospect, Cain would destroy me.", 
        "Geez, I thought Bellator was the TNA of MMA but it looks like it's these guys.", 
        "not MMA", 
        "Ah, my bad, I don't watch Lionfight (which I guess is part of the problem, haha)", 
        "muay thai promotion on AXS.tv put together really good cards but apparently have financing issues. ", 
        "Lion Fight is kickboxing, not MMA.", 
        "Lion Fight is Muay Thai not Kickboxing ", 
        "Thanks, my bad.", 
        "SFL didn't pay a lot of there fighters and has bombed because of that. It still holds events but they don't get any big names anymore.", 
        "they spent their entire budget creating the theme song.", 
        "Bellator is the WCW of MMA.  Owned by a superlarge corporation.  Sometimes do zany things that don't make sense.  Sometimes keep using old WWF/E talent.\n\nWSOF is the TNA.  Held in a volleyball court.", 
        "hahaha fair say.", 
        "If I had the money to buy it I would. Then I would send it right back to her.", 
        "That's basically what the gofundme did... only it was a bunch of people doing it.", 
        "One guy on her instagram said the same thing and was asking where the post was", 
        "Hope she sues. Start a Kickstarter for legal fees, I'm sure a lot of fight fans are willing to help. Especially now that Rogan is calling them out.", 
        "There is nothing wrong here. Takes 90 days to pay out winnings for events like this in most cases. If it was past 90 days then there would be a problem. I almost guarantee there is something in her contract stating this.", 
        "If that were the case why would these pro fighters be so upset?", 
        "Same thing happens in a lot of areas. The company I work for has a 90 day pay cycle for contractors. It is literally common practice, she probably didn't read her contract or even contact the promotion about it. Same exact thing happens with eSports as well since the pay cycles are like that with sponsor pay. So events usually take 90 days to pay out because they have to secure the sponsor checks and all that shit. There is more to this whole thing and not just, \"They haven't paid me\" that she is putting out there.", 
        "Sounds like speculation", 
        "Do a google search, it might stop you from looking like an idiot.", 
        "You should probably Google the definition of speculation.", 
        "Not really all that speculative when it has been a proven business practice in these situations many times over, learn to google.", 
        "So you've read her contract? Or are you just......speculating?", 
        "Just stop, you look really dumb.", 
        "Kickstarter is only for for-profit business ideas.", 
        "next JRE with edgy bra : big conspiracy where lion fight is run by the fertittas to get good fighters to sign with the ufc for low $.", 
        "and bigfoot ofc", 
        "*Interdimensional* bigfoot.", 
        "Chemtrails", 
        "TLPOTL fan by any chance? ", 
        "I might be, but I have no clue what tlpotl is so I can't really say...", 
        "Ahh, it's the last podcast on the left... They just released a podcast about Chemtrails so just thought you may of heard it.", 
        "Wait...Who shot Kennedy?", 
        "Tower 7.", 
        "What happened to Tim?!?!", 
        "Carrot Top", 
        "Kickstarter isn't really the best idea for donations. GoFundMe is a better direction if she decides to do that. ", 
        "I agree but GoFundMe campaigns are so shady now.  I think when Kevin Randleman died [this page popped up](https://www.gofundme.com/KevinRandleman), who the fuck is person?  He/she wasn't vouched by the family, at least to my knowledge.  There were also cases where distant family members cashed in their name by setting up GoFundMe stating that they would donate the money to someone in trouble but they never handed over the money.  \n\nWith GoFundMe reaching your goal is not required.  So that lady, if it is a lady, got ~13K USD just by using Randleman's name.  ", 
        "Tough to complain about the UFC when other promotions suck even more, huh?", 
        "Might be the only good thing about the Reebok deal. At least you know you'll be paid by your sole sponsor. ", 
        "what a shame, seriously. Fighters should come first.", 
        "They made their Instagram account private now.", 
        "https://www.instagram.com/lionfightofficial/", 
        "looks like that ONNIT sponsorship money isnt going far\n\nthey probably pay her in a supply of alpha brain and $30/lb trilogy nut butter spreads - [the same deal they offered anyone willing to monitor joe rogans message board looking for any legit negative press on ONNITs products, so they could send their 'science adviser' to talk circles around facts](http://oi44.tinypic.com/1zbbe5j.jpg)", 
        "lol wow, are they still doing this? I wouldn't mind getting free peanut butter spreads.", 
        "peanut butter is for poor people that dont listen to JRE or understand the importance of helping him get that second gold buddha \n\nand i was wrong, [its $34 per pound](https://www.onnit.com/wac-trilogy-butter/) + shipping\n\nthe best part was \"please include the number of posts you have on the forum\" - as of course they only wanted people that had been members of the community for long enough to have built up some 'rep' so that when they went to battle over onnit products, they wouldn be seen as just some shill thats being compensated by onnit.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", 
        "this has nothing to do with sponsorship cash, you try going 2 months without a check and see if yer in trouble, if most of this country goes as long as she has without their checks they would.be hurting too.", 
        "I already miss /r/joerogan2 :(", 
        "wow.. wtf happened?\n\njoe's actually had a fucking whole subreddit shut down now? \n\nmore \"copyright\" infringement bullshit?", 
        "They committed the crime of making highlight videos of Rogan's finest moments of idiocy talking to people smarter than him on his podcast.", 
        "Any know how this kinda shit is even legal?", 
        "It is, in fact, fucking illegal.", 
        "She's making the best of a shit situation though... if this gains even more traction (as it is looking to) her signing to any MMA organization will make major MMA news and she'll get 10x more attention than any other random female fighter that signs to bellator or UFC.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBK_BcAcYhk", 
        "Trying to make a living as a pro fighter is just a really bad life choice for a 125lb girl...", 
        "Exactly how much was her winnings for that specific fight?", 
        "inb4 Go Fund Me account", 
        "Lets crowd fund this girl. Or if there already is one whats the link? ", 
        "wow.  her agent must suck ", 
        "fight companies are always super sketch ", 
        "Knowing this sub somehow someway Dana and Reebok are responsible ", 
        "Lyin fights", 
        "She should start a GoFundme campaign with some sexy pictures and the internet white knights will come to the rescue. ", 
        "If this is how they treat the champ I can't imagine what they do to the average fighters!  \"Bring your own gloves to the fight punk!  And your momma wipes up your blood too!\"\n\nDamn!", 
        "Man and I thought Lion Fights were on the up and up.  That sucks.", 
        "Looks like she ain't the only one.\n\nhttps://www.instagram.com/p/BDFBgqBB8GHEAc3DZ_69cNfeBNa3JenHDot-aY0/", 
        "I'm sure the contract has a 'payment by X date' clause in it that probably hasn't come to pass yet. If this was not the case, she would be bringing them to court, rather than trying to rally internet pitchforks on Instagram.\n\nA shitty situation to not have your prize money immediately after the fight, but probably well within the legal and contractual obligations", 
        "Zuffa: \"Man I hope we can find a way to do this without anyone knowing :( \"", 
        "She needs to stop fighting lions and go make me a sammich!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "No need for quotes, buddy.", 
        "Holy crap she's cute. ", 
        "what a drama queen ", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/OBudLKz.gifv", 
        "Glad I wasn't the only one", 
        " Perfect gif *cry*", 
        "Mirror?\n\nIsn't available for me ", 
        "I'll never forgive Dana OffWhite for being a rude cunt to the GOAT.", 
        "Nonono it was the manager. \n\nIt's always the manager , to quote Dana\n\n\"Listen I'm as big a Prine fan as anybody, I love Fodort! It's the guys manager... he's... you listen, this manager, this guy, some of the deals he's made... it's just man you wanna,be,in,the UFCyougottahaveagoodmanagerandyoubestnotactlikeyoucanmakeUSmoneyitsushandingoutmoneyhereeverysalaryisaLOSSFORUSwereafuckin'charityshutupandtakelessmoneyfortougherfights!\"", 
        "OH MA GOD DA MANAGER IS TRYING TO GET MONEYS WTF", 
        "he is rude to anyone who doesnt follow suit, name one fighter except conor who he hasnt thrown under the bus after a dispute.", 
        "What? When did Conor and Dana have a dispute? ", 
        "He said except Conor ya goof.", 
        "Do you even into English mate? he said everyone that HAS had a dispute with Dana has been thrown under the bus, EXCEPT Conor, thereby claiming Conor had a dispute with Dana, you god damn goof!", 
        "Oh shit, I did goof, but so did you lad. \n>Do you even into English mate?\n\nPlus I thought they never did have a dispute.", 
        "\"Do you even into\" is a legit phrase (on the internet). Look it up lad.", 
        "No it's not", 
        "When the media said they did", 
        "\"the media said they did\". And you just took that as fact despite 0 evidence, 0 logical reason why it would happen and both Conor and Dana denying it as absolute bullshit? Media is media, they'll say anything to get attention. ", 
        "That was my point ya goof", 
        "I thought you were the same person I originally replied to... I'm dumb", 
        "Does anyone have doubt that Fedor of 2004 couldn't DOMINATE the 2016 UFC heavyweight roster? When is the last time you saw a heavyweight do a lead hand trap into a right straight, then turned the straight into an underhook and execute a perfect Sambo throw? Whenever Fedor did it last. ", 
        "I'm a big fan of Fedor, but even in his prime I think he would struggle against the true heavyweights of today. He is very undersized for heavyweight which was fine for his era, but I think he could have dropped down to 205 very easily and done very well.", 
        "In 2004? He was a massive heavyweight. Cain is no bigger and he isn't a small heavyweight.", 
        "Prime Fedor against the current HWs in their prime with USADA testing??\n\nNot only do I not think Fedor would be a Top 5 in that division, I think if he dropped to 205, he'd get worked over there by the big 3 in that division as well.", 
        "you should change your name to tequilasaucer", 
        "Just look at the variety of Fedor's strikes. High level boxing, nasty clinch, Olympic level judo, world champion Sambo. Not to mention that he out-kicked Cro-Cop. Watch Cain vs Werdum and tell me that Fedor isn't a level above both those guys.", 
        "High level boxing?? Are you using that seriously? \n\nHis judo and sambo are great, as high as you can get in MMA. Cain/Werdum is not a great example, in fact, it's one of Cain's worst performances at this level. Watch Cain/JDS. Both of those guys in their prime would be a problem for Fedor. \n\nWe all got caught up in his mystique back then. But with all the stories about Pride, all the tomato can fights, and Fedor's performance as good as he came to a reputable organization against prime fighters, there's not enough we've seen to think that what you're saying is true.\n\nHad he gotten into Strikeforce and just ran to the top and took the belt, then you've got a point. ", 
        "Fedor slipping Cro Cop's straight lefts >>>>> any \"boxing\" you see Heavyweights do today", 
        "Back in 2011-2012 I would of said there's no way. We had a lot of great talent Jr dos Santos was on a legendary streak , Cain looked like the next long-reigning champion of the UFC and Ubereem was joining the UFC. Now we have two corpse of what used to be Jr and Cain and we have no longer have Ubereem.\n\nWerdum could submit him? Maybe?", 
        "I could see Werdum subbing him, only if he was extremely exhausted for one reason or another. I don't think Werdum would last on the feet though, he just doesn't have the tools Fedor did. Same goes for Cain, Fedor just had more tools. Its the same reason I could see Jones doing well at heavyweight. ", 
        "Werdum submitted Fedor a few years ago already.\n\n", 
        "well werdum has submitted Fedor. Fedor was always one to sit in the guard of an opponent, give them some punishment and really just tired them out when it was on the ground.\n\nBut Werdum has always had an extremely dangerous full guard, and Fedor suffered from trying to sit in it.", 
        "I think Cain throughout his career has been somewhat overhyped if you look at his record it pales in comparison to fedor who built a fucking legacy none of this year off crap. I think fedor would smash Cain, it's a damn shame he was never given the chance thanks to uncle greedy fuckface and his goons. On another note fabricio is way under appreciated next too Cain. I always knew werdum would be champ Cain has been massively oversold", 
        "We're not looking at a record here we're looking at talent.", 
        "Cain is one dimensional compared to fedor. ", 
        "Hilarious. Cain's striking and wrestling are extremely high level in MMA. Fedor has incredible Sambo. Great submission and wrestling skills, but his striking is not as clean as Cain's. If we're talking Cain at full health vs. Fedor at full health with PED testing on both sides, I'd take Cain every time.", 
        "> If we're talking Cain at full health vs. Fedor at full health with PED testing on both sides, I'd take Cain every time.\n\nFunny, that, when Cain gassed out after one round under USADA testing.", 
        "Maybe there's fire behind that smoke. You might have a case for that.\n\nI still take Cain over Fedor with the USADA testing. Fedor's fall from grace once he came to a solid organization with testing policies is just a little too convenient.", 
        "Cain can strike and push to the fence but that's really it. He doesn't have high level submission skills, take downs, or any of the things that made fedor great. Clean striking is irrelevant in this discussion, Fedor knocked too many hard chins out for us to compare. As his striking coach responded to people with the same criticism: \"He hits, they go down. What else do you want?\" The casting punches were used with the pride gloves in mind, where people shelled up like boxing, so he didn't hit straight on, rather he used his force to jam his way around the side of the glove.", 
        "Do you know Cain's background? He was a collegiate champion. And he trains with some even higher level wrestlers on the regular. He just doesn't use wrestling as often. \n\nAnd that striking quote is cute, but in a way, you're kind of admitting his striking is not that great. When someone like Fujita is catching him with his hands down and wobbling him, or even Rodgers in Strikeforce, there's a problem. He would have a serious problem with someone like JDS. Clean striking is ALWAYS relevant in the modern MMA game when you look at some of the pedigrees that are starting to really move up in the game now.", 
        "Form and function often do not make good pairs together. You raise excellent points, I'm not saying Fedor's striking is the example everyone followed, but it wasn't his technique that made him so successful, it was the intangible factors like fearlessness, ability to sieze the moment, etc. \n\nAnd yes, He got caught by another professional fighter and was wobbled once in his entire career. As for Rogers, we know how that fight ended. It's a fight, people get hit. Cain couldn't outstrike Werdum and we all thought Cain had superior striking going into that match.\n\nEDIT: Also I'm familiar with Cain's background, but honestly Collegiate level this or that means nothing in the international scene. Cael Sanderson was undefeated through high school and collegiate wrestling but lost quite a few matches when he stopped onto the international scene. I would bet on an international combat sambo champion over a high ranked collegiate wrestler, if that were the only info available to me, every day of the week.", 
        "You're using Cain's worst fight as evidence of what he's capable of against Prime Fedor. Why not use Prime Cain vs. Prime Fedor? I could just as easily use Fedor getting his lights taken out by a natural 205, past his prime Henderson, or getting absolutely demolished by Bigfoot Silva (a guy Cain stomped twice in the first round) as evidence Fedor couldn't hang with Cain.\n\nYou can say whatever you want about what you think collegiate wrestling means. Either way, it's flat out incorrect to call Cain one-dimensional on any level, even if it's in comparison to Fedor.", 
        "how could you have any doubt a lot of the guys he beat are still hanging around and they are obviously past their prime", 
        "He'd still clean up a lot of the roster now. ", 
        "Probably, but I wouldn't bet on him vs a top five. ", 
        "You dont think he could take JDS?", 
        "GOAT and don't get it fucking twisted", 
        "I'm not ashamed to admit that it got a little dusty in here dudes.", 
        "Fucking neighbor is running a backhoe through an onion patch. ", 
        "I know right!? Fucking pollen!", 
        "We'll never see another stoic killer of killers like Fedor. :*(", 
        "No we won't. He was once in a lifetime. I truly miss the actual professionals. They didn't him and haw around. They didn't talk shit. They just went out and did the absolute best that they could each and every time.", 
        "Pride events were so epic and the promotion was geared towards honoring this amazing, brutal athletes. It did what a true promotion does, promote the sport and it's stars. From the amazing audience, to the ref cam, to the all-white ring, and the entrances, what artistry. It was just amazing to witness.", 
        "Where can I find Pride fights?  That sounds magical.", 
        "I'm a casual but I recommend watching Fedor's fights on YouTube and its a rabbit hole from there... save me", 
        "on the ufc website, Google best of pride or on youtube people have full events up", 
        "Agreed 110%! Like I said in another thread, there was a kind of pageantry to it without being over the top that the modern UFC lacks.", 
        "To me it has 90% to do with the fact that the UFC retained that disgusting vile cockfighting cage. It sets the tone for the whole show. It's just a blight imo. I'm sure there is a better solution (ring + netting betting the ropes for ex.). Then of course you have the catastrophic Reebok deal that's sucked all traces of individuality. Like all things American, it's about the bottom line for Zuffa. They don't give a fuck about the art. ", 
        "I want Pride back :(", 
        "video was blocked, anyone have a mirror", 
        "Uploading it to streamable right now, I downloaded it just in time.", 
        "^real MVP", 
        "My internet sucks donkey dick though. Should be ready in about 5 minutes !", 
        "Here it is ! https://streamable.com/bakd", 
        "like if you cry everytim", 
        "https://youtu.be/pvniGG7lvQI?t=1m21s that how you train in the park without playing touch butt.", 
        "Annnnd its gone", 
        "Damn. That was a cool video. ", 
        "Simply the greatest ", 
        "Any mirrors? UFC took it down apparently because you posted it. ", 
        "Here: https://streamable.com/bakd", 
        "Thanks man, really appreciate it!", 
        "Mirror: https://streamable.com/bakd    FUCK YOU UFC COME AT ME BRO", 
        "For all that we can talk about how the sport has evolved and Fedor, arguably, wouldn't fare as well with the new breed of fighters, one thing of which I am reminded watching that video is how phenomenal Fedor's sense of balance was. That's something he had above and beyond almost anyone I've seen in the ring/cage; you can say his striking wouldn't be up to scratch now or his ground game wasn't so hot, but his body positioning was, and still would be, light years ahead.\n\nSo many times bigger guys tried to put him down and couldn't do it, so many times he'd spin and fall and still wind up in an advantageous position. Conor McGregor can work with Ido Portal all he wants, but Fedor's (innate?) body awareness was just on another level and one of the things that made his fights such a delight to watch.", 
        ">For all that we can talk about how the sport has evolved and Fedor, arguably, wouldn't fare as well with the new breed of fighters\n\nI think he would've still been an absolute beast. Fedor relied extremely much on his speed. He was amazingly fast for a heavyweight, but he lost a lot of it when he got older and it's probably a huge reason why he started losing", 
        "Nothing like a little dig to Conor in every thread here in /r/MMA", 
        "Absolutely wasn't meant to be a dig at Conor. I was trying to say that just as you can study striking for decades and never develop true one punch knockout power, you can study all the movement you want, but another guy will have it innately. \n\nDon't forget, Fedor trained with pool noodles too. He just had something above and beyond right from the start.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEsQJpyW3-U&feature=youtu.be&t=2m49s", 
        "You couldve removed the part about Conor and still would made sense. No need to put someone down especially when we dont know your credentials and how you got to your conclusions. For all we know your just talking out of your ass and dissing professional MMA fighters.", 
        "I 100% get what you're saying, but it wasn't meant to be a diss. Is it a diss to say that Michael Bisping doesn't have the same knockout ability as Dan Henderson? It's an objective statement of fact based on prior performance.\n\nFor what it's worth I love mma, don't get into fighter bandcamps, and absolutely respect anyone who ever steps into a ring or cage, but to say that everyone is equal in everything is just silly. All I was trying to say is that Conor very visibly and publicly trains an aspect of his fighting technique that Fedor displayed, to all appearances effortlessly, in every single one of his fights.\n\nEdit: I think Conor is a great fighter, a masterful showman, and the sport is richer for having him in it.", 
        "Conor loses 1 fight and you guys jump to conclusions. What about the several exceptional performances he had before? That fight with Aldo was a thing of beauty. He used that step in step out motion that was clearly picked up from Ido touchbutt sessions in the park. I mean Aldo was a P4P legend and Conor utilized the movement exceptionally and knocked him out in record breaking fashion. ", 
        "> For all that we can talk about how the sport has evolved and Fedor, arguably, wouldn't fare as well with the new breed of fighters,\n\nplease stfu", 
        "Yeah.\n\nhttp://themmacorner.com/2013/06/28/fedor-emelianenkos-once-invincible-legacy-is-evidence-of-mmas-evolution/\n\nYou.\n\nhttp://bleacherreport.com/articles/2557581-fedor-emelianenko-vs-the-ufcs-top-10-heavyweights-how-would-he-fare\n\nRight.\n\nhttp://fightland.vice.com/blog/can-fedor-be-a-success-among-ufcs-current-heavyweight-roster", 
        "Are we talking old fedor now vs today's fighters or if 2004 fedor was transported to today? Cuz I think 2004 fedor with year's worth of work in a 2016 gym would do quite well, specifically for this great balance that you cited. Adapting to the cage would be the major snagging point if there was one IMO. Old fedor is too slow these days. ", 
        "> or are you just talking out of your ass based on things you read/heard?\n\nQuoting myself from my reply to your comment above. After reading this post I no longer require an answer to my question. \n", 
        "His ground game would still be phenomenal today. He can pull armbars out of his ass on the fly. ", 
        "And yet got caught in a really stupid triangle by Werdum.", 
        "So the fact that he got submitted once by a 2 times BJJ world champion means his ground game is not that good? Also, it was not a \"stupid triangle\", that was an amazing sub Werdum pulled off, it was unexpected and came out of nowhere, much like the majority of Fedor's subs. Did you actually watched MMA back in those days or are you just talking out of your ass based on things you read/heard? ", 
        "I realise I wasn't clear and your first sentence perfectly describes what I meant. Not stupid on Werdum's side, but stupid on Fedor's. \n\nFedor knocked Werdum down and aggressively followed up, but from the moment he did he was in trouble. There was a gap where he could have escaped and regrouped, but instead he pursued the finish and that allowed Werdum to go even deeper. I have to disagree with you, it's not unexpected, from the moment Fedor goes after him Werdum works aggressively off his back and unless Fedor knocked him spark out with a hammerfist, Werdum was going to sink something in.\n\nObviously this is with the benefit of hindsight and armchair commentary, and Fedor did extremely well against Ant\u00f4nio Rodrigo Nogueira a bunch of times so you're right, I could just be talking out of my ass.", 
        "Thats the thing though, Fedor had legendary ground and pound. he was chilling in Big Nog's guard and pummelling him non stop in both their fights, so I'm pretty sure it was unexpected of him to get caught by Werdum. Maybe he didn't give him enough respect, but my main point was that this one submission loss, whatever the reason for it may be, on its own, is not a good enough argument to make in order to legitimise your claim that his ground game would not be good enough nowadays. ", 
        "You make a very good point and I was absolutely not making a claim, merely raising a question that has been raised before, by far better commentators on the game than I.\n\nThe whole point of my post was that people can argue about various aspects of his stand-up and ground technique, but the one thing that is absolutely undeniable is that Fedor had incredible body awareness and balance on a level that's rarely seen even at the elite levels of the sport.", 
        "Fair enough. \n\n As to his balance, I agree, that also helped him become multiple time world champion in Sambo and medallist in Judo, where balance plays a huge part. ", 
        "i think fedor would fare absolutely fine with the new breed of fighters. he was GSP before GSP with better standing strikes (but the same laser-guided ground and pound)", 
        "I can't even imagine how scary it would be to have this bloke on top of you.\n\nhttps://youtu.be/_cxSxkNaXE0?t=259", 
        "fucking hell, the power he gets from the ground is insane", 
        "That was amazing. I loved the awkward laugh when he finished and everyone in the room was like \"Holy F*ck...\"\n", 
        "Has anyone ever been as monstrously dangerous in someone else's guard?", 
        "Mark Kerr used to headbutt the shit out people while in guard. ", 
        "RUDY!!!!!!\n\n[This music](https://youtu.be/tbcQlITOMTk?t=1857) also would have worked. Meh, fedor has my heart. What can I say. ", 
        "fedor at his best is the best mma fighter ive ever seen, just great all round fighter with scary offence. i think his balance and explosiveness started to go and thats why we saw him decline towards the end. At his best though he is goat no doubt.", 
        "Mirror anyone please?\n", 
        ":**(", 
        "nearly brought me to tears. you have warmed a frigid heart", 
        "Why must the UFC ruin the most beautiful things that people put so much hard work into?", 
        "Why didn't Fedor ever fight in the UFC?", 
        "Fedor had dignity.", 
        "When Fedor started, and for pretty much his entire career, Pride had a much more stacked HW division. More money, larger venues, more people watching on TV, no testing, more international fighters, etc. When it folded Fedor already disliked Dana, who had bashed Pride and denied Fedor not only the title of best fighter, but also best heavyweight when asked. The UFC offered him millions, but he decided to go Strikeforce, who was building an impressive new heavyweight division. Apparently one of his positions on the UFC deal was that he wanted them to partner with Russian MMA promotion M1. He chose Rizin the second go round, because they gave him just as much money to fight bums. In the end I just think Fedor doesn't like the way the UFC does business.", 
        "I think the biggest sticking point was his insistence upon co-promotion with M1 (which he owns a large piece of). I think Dana didn't want to do any kind of deal that departed drastically from the standard way they do business. Which Fedor and his management team felt was unfair to fighters. And let's be honest it probably is, but offering certain fighters co-promotion rights is a slippery slope and one I can understand them wanting to stay away from.", 
        "Also he was on the tail end of his career once pride was over. Most pride era fighters were. Hell even look at chuck lidell around the strikeforce era...the great mma fighters of that time were pretty much done once Pride folded...\n\nPRIDE NEVER DIE!!!!", 
        "Pride Never Die bro.", 
        "i like the video, but that music is so annoying.", 
        "Almost as if PED's have a lasting effect on your body.", 
        "[It's always Thick solid tight in  \u200eCoconut Creek](http://alexanderlozada.com/iasip/?SXQncyBhbHdheXMgVGhpY2ssIFNvbGlkLCBUaWdodCBpbiBDb2NvbnV0IENyZWVrLg==)", 
        "nah ", 
        "They do.", 
        "Its true just weird how soft Vitor looks it amazes me.", 
        "There's actually research into that. http://www.physoc.org/press-release/2013/steroids-muscle", 
        "TIL looks like the muscle memory bro science theory has some merit", 
        "wtf\n\nso is there any reason not to do a cycle then\n\nfor a regular dude i mean", 
        "He'll slim down, give it more time. Overeem was still ripped for some time after he got popped", 
        "His legs look a little smaller though or is that just me", 
        "I agree", 
        "As a huge overeem fan and someone who's worked in the gym industry for many years, I think he stopped taking GH and all the anabolics but kept taking test until recently. he noticeably shrunk further between the jds fight and his previous one now that USADA is in effect he has probably stopped ", 
        "That was my point.", 
        "Almost as if most people cycle them. Its not like you turn into marshmallow when you cycle off in time to be clean for your fight and its testing.", 
        "He wasn't being tested while suspended either I don't think. ", 
        "Probably not. Go somewhere out of the way and get on everything then cycle off and pass your test come fight time.", 
        "Lombard has been tested 3 times in 2016.", 
        "What about 2015?", 
        "http://www.usada.org/testing/results/athlete-test-history/\n\nHe doesn't come up at all for 2015..", 
        "Thanks for the info. This was my point, he was given time off to load up as much as he wanted. Seems pretty dumb to me. ", 
        "Well the problem is he wouldn't know if he would get tested or not in 2015.  As far as I know, Lombard can't see into the future.", 
        "Are athletes tested whilst they are under suspension?", 
        "If they're employed by the ufc I would assume yes.", 
        "I think the angle makes him look small ", 
        "Hes not tall, 5'8/5'9ish", 
        "And gsp is huge", 
        "I go on this sub so much I don't know if this is reference to the GSP post or actually saying he looks small...", 
        "It will always be the GSP reference ", 
        "when I met him at LAX. I had trouble believing he makes 170. schuab and callen were also right about his ass. its like two watermelons", 
        "If my girlfriend finds out I've been googling big black guys asses, it's your fault.", 
        "That's how I felt meeting Jacare at a BJJ tournament.  He just looked huge for his weight class, even his face looked muscular.  One of the guys I train with was fighting at 205 at the time and with me and he just looked small by comparison.  ", 
        "pair of honey dukes on him", 
        "*dews", 
        "hector 'the duke of honey' lombard", 
        "Showmelons", 
        "hahahah, couple of one two honey dews", 
        "Lopes. \n\nCantaloupes. ", 
        "It's a slippery slope", 
        "Who ever has Hector on their [PED Bingo Card](https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/40smxv/ufc_roster_ped_bingo/) must be grinning from ear to ear", 
        "I wish I had him, I haven't had anyone on my card pop yet :(", 
        "That lighting makes him look like a Hector Lombard action figure. ", 
        " I was going to post this... and realised he looks SO much like one, that someone else had to have posted it before me. \u041c\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0434\u0435\u0446", 
        "i seriously thought it was a first. Had to do a double take. ", 
        "The referee has called a stop to this contest in the first round, declaring your winner, by knock out....MODERN CHEMISTRY!!!", 
        "His abs, shoulders and calves look a lot less defined to me. Dude is still big though.  \n   \n", 
        "hector \"the all natural\" lombard", 
        "we will get a clear picture at the weigh ins.. Lombard is a genetic freak no doubt though, he's going to look ripped up whether hes on gear or not. ", 
        "Yeah people here are acting like he's just your average PED user. This guy was just born better, PEDs or not.", 
        "Nothing but pure, natural Cuban genetics. \n\nHim and Yoel are just naturally gifted by God and their country.\n\nThey don't take PED's, they *are* PED's!", 
        "lmao. spit out my mushroom soup reading this", 
        "They dont take PEDs, PEDs take them!", 
        "His traps and shoulders both look smaller, and he doesn't look 'puffy'", 
        "I was just about to say this. Don't remember that being small.", 
        "What's more funny is that before he popped, neckbeards on this sub were saying he was natural because he passed Olympic testing and just worked hard.\n\nPROTIP: Almost no pro athlete is natural.", 
        "The only neckbeards are the ones crying about PEDs", 
        "No, the neckbeards that have never lifted think you can get a physique like Yoel at age 38 without using assistance.", 
        "Nobody was saying that. ", 
        "People did say that before he pissed hot. I was downvoted for saying his was certainly on stuff. Same for Yoel.", 
        "i mostly saw people saying to give him the benefit of the doubt, if he had been testing clean all those years, there was no hard evidence against him (unless the eye test counts)", 
        "Ronnie Coleman never failed a drug test, nor did Arnold. Clean tests really mean nothing.", 
        "Direct correlation to the people who think WWE is real and Brock Lesnar is fully natty", 
        "Yep. ", 
        "What do you mean WWE isn't real? You just shattered my world bro.", 
        "He looks like an action figure", 
        "I think he does look slightly smaller albeit the angle of the pic isn't the greatest. ", 
        "I would fail a drug test just from looking at this picture", 
        "Dude has competed at the highest level for a long time, hard to compete with that level of experience in the dope testing game", 
        "I heard that fighters don't get tested while suspended? Not 100% sure but that would explain alot. He's a very stocky dude who are more propense to look like this.. but he's 38 aswell :x \n\nHector, Yoel.. the Cuban genome maybe?", 
        "Before USADA that was the case. But even USADA dropped the ball in his case. They didn't test him once in 2015. But in 2016 so far he's been tested 3 times. ", 
        "''You're on steroids''", 
        "\"you are all on steroids\"", 
        "A major juice head, he will never stop taking them!", 
        "I suppose if you're Lombard coming off the juice probably doesn't make a lot of sense right now, dude is 38, just served a year suspension anyway, his career is probably close to finishing at 40 odd fights and he's managed to get by the testing all this time, why stop now? ", 
        "Lombard looks like a Captain America experiment.", 
        "How does Lombard get little to no suspension for PEDs but Diaz was originally banned for 5 years? Am I missing something here? ", 
        ">little to no suspension\n\nhe was suspended for a year\n\nto play *devils advocate*, nick was being a cunt and has no respect for the rules, like they dont apply to him\n\n he has failed many times and each suspension is longer than the previous, for obvious reasons. not justifying it, but its understandable. \n\nthey also changed nick's suspension to 18 months", 
        "You're missing the three other times Diaz has failed his drug test.\n\nRepeat offenders get harsher sentences. It's not complicated.", 
        "Ah right. Forgot about those.", 
        "His neck, shoulders and head look smaller already.", 
        "He looks as big, if not as well defined (but that could be the lighting and the fact that he's a month out). For me the real test is going to be if his cardio is anywhere up to snuff. ", 
        "He looks less swole than before, he just looks big ", 
        "Looks like a still from UFC 2", 
        "\"They will never suspect I'm juicing right after being caught!\"", 
        "RIP magney ", 
        "I still can't believe he was ever able to go down to 170 in his later 30s.", 
        "#Shango", 
        "Lol if anyone thinks he's off them, he just found better ones that are harder to trace like most top tier fighters.", 
        "Do they test for Gamma Radiation?", 
        "Does he even lift?", 
        "I trained with him a few months ago... Felt bigger than some heavyweights I train with. ", 
        "Yeah me too he felt huge, especially in the shower afterwards.", 
        "stay tuned for the post fight pisser", 
        "He doubled down on designer roids dawg", 
        "Is this motherfuckers instagram really private? ", 
        "chemists come up with some new shit", 
        "this is the key.  the drugs always have and always will be ahead of the testing", 
        "No they aren't.", 
        "Plus there's this thing called ''cycles''. He can travel overseas (so USADA guys can't find him), then take some PEDs that won't be detected after 24-48 hours.", 
        "Doing one of those muay thai camps for sure. Fighters always come back so refreshed and swole after those, must be something in the air over there.", 
        "Yup.", 
        "All natty bro.  \n\nJust another victim of that company selling ATT tainted supplements", 
        "[wonder whats in season in Fl right now?](http://alexanderlozada.com/iasip/?SXQncyBhbHdheXMgVGhpY2ssIFNvbGlkLCBUaWdodCBpbiBDb2NvbnV0IENyZWVrLg==)", 
        "I'm pretty sure that's a Hector Lombard action figure.\n\n[Edit: Confirmed: picture of Batman from same photo shoot.](http://i.imgur.com/t54BYQe.png)", 
        "I really think the hate that Lombard gets on r/mma is ridiculous.\n\nDo you guys really think that most other fighters are clean just because they know how to pass drug tests?", 
        "People act like PEDs are the only way to get swole, and there isn't a way to get swole with diet, supplements & training.", 
        "no ones implying that at all.. \n\ndont play the \"youre all neckbeards that dont lift\" card. \n\ntheres definitely idiots out there who think anyone that can benchpress more than their own bodyweight is \"on roids\", but thats obviously not the case here. \n\nthe opposite of that though, is guys that do what youre doing. try to take the \"youre just neckbeards and dont lift/jealous\" stance anytime someone rightfully points out a drug abuser \n\n", 
        "I think there's a lot of people that assume if you have a good physique in MMA you're abusing some sort of PED.  I'm not sure what their motivation is and if they're physically fit themselves.  I don't think that's the case.  I think you can get a great physique if you're a full time athlete without PEDs.", 
        "RIP Neil Magney", 
        "I've never seen a community more interested in male physiques.", 
        "You must not watch pro wrestling then.\n\nI can talk about [Finn Balor's](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/76/d5/33/76d533d216beaf3297edb1bc5a861055.jpg) physique for hours. ", 
        "At the time he had 5 straight losses. 6 if you count a kickboxing fight. He was fatter than he is now. He had to lose a lot of weight to be able to make 265. Then he lost his 1st ufc fight super fast and it wasn't close.\n\nIt was looking pretty bad for Hunt at the time.\n\nIt's like a rocky story.\n", 
        "That's insane, that's super dedication and faith in yourself right there. I probably would have taken the money.", 
        "A couple years later he gets the call out of no where to fight Werdum on short notice in Mexico at high altitude, has to lose 30kg/66 pounds in 3 weeks, still drops Werdum a couple times.\n\nRocky aint got shit on Hunt", 
        "Have you got a source on that 30kg number? I know he has to cut a lot of weight to make 265, but that sounds like an inordinate amount.", 
        "I was literally screaming at the tv man. He was winning the fight I couldn't believe it fucking crazy fight. Mark Hunt is the fucking man!", 
        "I love hunt, I really do but he didn't drop werdum. Werdum baited him and pretended to get dropped.\n\nStill, hunt did decently well in that fight", 
        "He did the same to Fedor.", 
        "> Werdum baited him and pretended to get dropped.\n\nThat's how he subbed Fedor.", 
        "Werdum absolutely has baited guys before and dropped when he didn't have to after being hit, but I don't think this was one of those times.", 
        "Either way he won that first round .", 
        "I have a sneaking suspicion you are right but my die hard Hunt nut hugging clouds my mind.  Werdum behaved similar to how he fought Overeem in strikeforce, pretended to be knocked down so they would jump on him", 
        "> baited him and pretended to get dropped.\n\nI tell myself that every time I watch Anderson these days.\n\nBut seriously, I doubt Werdum actually faked it, even in an embedded leading to Werdum-Velasquez he said he got dropped but wasn't out while he was eating lunch with Gastelum.", 
        "Why would he go out just by having lunch w. Gastelum?", 
        "Yeah, people said it a lot about Anderson too but I think what feeds it with Werdum is that he's actually done this. He used it to tap Fedor.", 
        "could be both, any hunto punch can drop you, and he has this sneaky habit of making himself look way more hurt than he actually is\n", 
        "The first knock-down was a hook-cross, something Hunt throws often and it looked like Werdum was anticipating it, which is why he sort of dropped straight down.\n\nThe second knock down was a cross-hook that Werdum wasn't anticipating, which is why he went flying. At least, that's how I saw them!", 
        "The reem fight was just silly in that regard", 
        "i took my 4 year old niece fishing last weekend, and this one bluegill got away from me as i took the hook out its mouth and started flopping around on the dock, giving me flashbacks of Ubereem VS Werdum. ", 
        "sue looked like he did. Hunt followed him down and was able to beat on him without Werdum tying him up. ", 
        "Hunt didn't follow him down. He let him right back up, defended a sloppy takedown, and then later landed a takedown of his own and spent the rest of the round winning while on top. It was a round worthy of becoming the champion. That single round in MMA told me more about how far Hunt has come, than any other.\n\nYou're right though, Hunt did knock Werdum down. Werdum played it off because it didn't land clean, but if that bomb had it would have been all over.", 
        "Werdum did tie him up, Hunt did nothing on top but defend himself.", 
        "Not to mention all of the personal/family issues that he was going through at the time. You gotta love a fighter like Mark Hunt, that dude is the definition of a warrior. ", 
        "I was always a fan of Mark Hunt the fighter. But he never seemed to talk much, his usual answer was yes or no the question pretty much didn't matter. His after fight speech was usually something with god and you couldn't understand the rest. But now lately he seems to really have found his voice, his book is amazing and his interviews are now awesome. Its crazy how time changed him you would think he would talk less and become less understandable after each fight, but its the exact opposite!", 
        "yeah.", 
        "[Dowvnvotes by casuals.](https://youtu.be/KdOwc5du2C0?t=28)", 
        "ahaha, my younger brother probably hasn't read a single book in his life, the least studious person ever born yet he went out and purchased a copy of Hunt's book and read it from cover to cover.  Strange things are happening....", 
        "I got his book as a christmas present. It was really good, even my mum and sister really enjoyed it and they dislike fighting.", 
        "[My favorite old Mark Hunt gif](http://i.imgur.com/XldxQc2.gif)", 
        "Fuck, Crocop was so damn quick and unpredictable with that kick back in the day.", 
        "i know man! I really wish we had UFC or a more visible sport back then, CroCop would have been a fucking MEGA star, he was such a badass. I love that guy", 
        "I don't have the gif link but this clip is one I'll always remember seeing and having my jaw drop when it happened.\n\nhttps://youtu.be/upwkcdvG40Y", 
        "Same shit as pro wrestling hitting a Samoan in the head doesn't do shit. ", 
        "How is that even physically possible??!", 
        "Funny, Hunt stumbles cro cop a little right after that.  Cement mixer in his head.  Unshakeable.", 
        "Does anyone know why they didn't just cut him as they usually do? ", 
        "When they bought pride they had to live up to the contracts pride already had.  Most accepted the pay out to cancel the contract, Hunt didn't so they had to give him the fights", 
        "that's nuts\n\nso basically he was fighting for free?\n\nI mean he could've even taken the money and started fighting elsewhere\n\nin fact it doesn't seem like a great business move by him", 
        "No, the UFC effectively took over the Pride contracts meaning that they had to pay Hunt the amount he was earning in Pride per fight as well as offering him the amount of fights he had left with Pride. \n\n The UFC didn't want to do this so offered him $450,000 to buy out his contract however he refused and the rest is history. ", 
        "oh I thought 450k was the amount he would've earned\n\nwow he must've been on a lot more in pride than I would've assumed", 
        "There was still a contract in place to get payed. He wasn't fighting at all. It's like he got laid off per se. ", 
        "He's the coolest ever. If there as any cosmic justice anywhere, it will coalesce into a glob big enough to allow him, through some set of circumstances, I don't care if they're unusual, to get gold. Maybe he gets a win and some top guys are booked and somebody else just lost their title match and somebody gets injured and he steps in and clobbers whoever has the belt. If that happens, I would never ask MMA for anything ever again. Of course I'd love it if he just bulldozed straight through the top guys and won it that way, but I'll take it however I can get it. ", 
        "There is only one thing to say about this.  WARHUNTO", 
        "Hunto is a god damn hero. I was never big into athletics as a kid, and certainly didn't get why people worshipped sports stars. Contrast that with now, where Mark Hunt is probably the biggest inspiration in my life, complete with the posters and signed book and nervous fanboy pictures. I'm just so happy to be into this sport at the same time as he is still actively fighting!", 
        "[Wow...Vwerry Fantastic Body](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wKjP2Niu6o)", 
        "I love hunt so much, and happy to see he turned his skid around.  I LOVED his fights in K-1, and his classic Pride moments (Butt slam!).\n\nI was losing my mind when he was beating Fabricio, but pretty heartbroken when he ate that knee.  I'd love to see Hunto get just one more crack at that belt before he leaves.", 
        "how come the ufc signed him when he was on such a loss streak?", 
        "They didn't, they inherited his counteract when they purchased pride.", 
        "He was a part of the Pride buy.", 
        "why would anyone want Mark Hunt to go away?? he's awesome! fans love the dude!", 
        "A large number of fans didn't love him back in the day. In fact, a *lot* of people talked shit about him for *years*. It's only been after his multiple highlight reel KOs that people have turned back around to love Mark Hunt.", 
        "The UFC just didn't do their research before hand, had no idea how entertaining he was.  \n\nDana did an interview where he officially apologized, he wore the Hunt vs Silva #2 rematch shirt for ages due to their amazing fight.  Was nice to see he joined team Hunt.", 
        "No. DW was a Hunt fan and knew how entertaining Hunt was, but that was his issue. He thought he was doing him a favor by just offering him money instead of fights because of how big his losing streak was. Fighters that DW actually likes he tries to do them favors by persuading them to stop fighting like he did Chuck. But Hunt wasn't gonna take money he didn't think he had earned, which is dope cause we have gotten tons of awesome fights from him since. ", 
        "\"He\u2019s made $275,000 in fight-night bonus money alone.\" Holy shit! No way!!!!! Suck it, Lebron. ", 
        "lol what", 
        "they gonna offer frankie this to stay away from conor", 
        "I so want him to do another run for the belt and get it.", 
        "Smart move would have been to take the cash unless his pride contract was super dope. ", 
        "most would have taken the money and run. the fact that he didn't  goes to show the confidence he has in himself. ", 
        "I love this guy.  So straight forward and clear.  No BS, no macho crap, no fake drama.", 
        "Basically if Dana tells you something you should do the opposite.  Hunt is a fucking genius! As well as a damn stubborn and tough fighter...", 
        "\"The decision to not walk away has paid off in a major way for the New Zealander. He\u2019s made $275,000 in fight-night bonus money alone. When combined with his pay, Hunt has come out well ahead in a situation where most would have called him crazy\"\n\nNo amount of money if worth the brain trauma he's taken in those fights. ", 
        "Depends what you want in life. That money puts his grandkids through college do they don't need to get brain damage to survive. ", 
        "can't stop liking this guy. Mark \"the sick cunt\" Hunt ! Good luck man.", 
        "wow it would have been much better for his brain if he took the money and retired :(", 
        "To be fair that's not a lot of money in Australia. You can make that working as a McDonalds manager .", 
        "What's austrailia got anything to do with this? And i highly doubt they pay half a million american dollars...\nJust for being a manager in mcd's. ", 
        "> What's austrailia got anything to do with this\n\nHunt lives in Sydney, which has absurd cost of living. He's exaggerating, though.", 
        "This makes me want there to be a UFC Combine.\n\nI want stuff like fasted mile, strongest punch, strongest kick, most jumprope skips in a minute, strongest rear naked choke squeeze, highest score at dance revolution, brick breaking, staring the longest without blinking, most lbs cut in 1 hour.", 
        "I was thinking about that to before I knew that Faber and Phil Davis came up with one. It would be an awesome way to promote young talent. ", 
        "I would watch this shit out of this if it was a series. ", 
        "They should do this like on NBA's all star weekend (three point shoot out, slam dunk contest) what you mentioned fits this profile.", 
        "staring longest without blinking\n\n1. Rory\n\n2. Rory\n\n3. Rory", 
        "Fasted mile is the event where fighters compete to cut weight and then remain conscious while running a mile.", 
        "Man fuck that shit, I just want to see how freaken thick, solid, and tight the roster can get. Get a combine going for that, I need the motivation. Thanks dude.", 
        "Keep us all posted with your continued progress.", 
        "The I didn't leave it all in the cage championships ", 
        "Not exactly his fault... The fight was stopped due to injury.\n\nEdit: Holy fuck I never realised that fight went to decision... Not sure why I always thought it was doctor stoppage", 
        "Here is a link the the end of the fight where it happened. \n\nhttps://youtu.be/fRs2yPrynAc?t=33m40s \n\nJose won: Decision (unanimous) (48\u201345, 48\u201346, 49\u201346)", 
        "that's not true.", 
        "I've seen people say this when fighters do athletic shit after decision. It's ignorant thing to say because it's not always strategically wise to go all the way with your cardio in a fight, especially when Jose was winning. It also comes down to how Jose fights, he doesn't get crazy in the 5th like Robbie Lawler.", 
        "This no fucking legit reason to do anything other than hang your head low and hope you get the decision.", 
        "Please watch the fight and come back. I even linked the whole fight for someone in this thread. Jose laid on his back for most of the 5th. Total strikes in the 5th round was 62 to 3. Sure, it was probably good for him to coast or maybe even just run away and hide behind the ref for the last 5 minutes, but that isn't really anything to show off about. ", 
        "Jose Aldo vs Mark Hominick", 
        "Jose rocking the knuckle ups. Mark you got show up son.", 
        "Context?", 
        "I think there was talk about cardio leading up to the fight.  They're both showing they can go 5 rounds+.  Something like that!", 
        "The fight ended in a draw so they setteled it in a push up contest.", 
        "do we just say random shit now?", 
        "yeah could everyone only post literal things?\n\nsome of us have trouble following when  people use exaggeration, figurative language or sarcasm", 
        "oops my bad i suck", 
        "That's partly why I dislike using the /s sign because I feel as though it taints the sarcastic or satirical view you are trying to convey. Kinda like saying \"just kidding\" after every joke.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "It didn't end in a push up contest either, Einstein. ", 
        "legend has it it ended up in a penis measuring contest", 
        "Aldo won by foreskin", 
        "Caralho", 
        "I believe the push ups were Mark Homminick's trademark after fight move. I remember watching highlights of him leading up to his fight with Aldo and he'd always drop and do them after winning.\n\nJose just did it because as long as it's not Conor he's fighting, he's the happiest dude in the cage post fight.", 
        "Leading up to the fight Aldo said something to the effect of \"he won't be doing push-ups after this fight\" so Mark did. I'm guessing Aldo followed suit to show Mark didn't have more in the tank after the fight than he did. ", 
        "I haven't seen this fight, what happend do Mark's forehead? Never seen anything like it", 
        "Aldo smacked him around a bit. Left him with a [memorable hemotoma](http://i.imgur.com/PcMvPUc.jpg)", 
        "What happens if you get hit with a solid punch in a hemotoma, anyone know?", 
        "They can certainly burst but it rarely happens in any kind of spectacular way. I've seen smaller ones split and bleed out. ", 
        "Mark got hit in round 3 or 4 with a huge shot and it developed a freaky hematoma on his head. \n\nFor whatever reason they didn't stop the fight and in round 5 it grew exponentially. However, it was also the round where Mark was able to get Aldo down (for the first time?) and control him for the round. At some point, I believe peopled believed he would even finish Jose....\n\nGood Stuff.", 
        "> Mark got hit in round 3 or 4 with a huge shot and it developed a freaky ~~hematoma~~ Kuato on his head.\n\n", 
        "Yep, got beaten in the first 4 rounds pretty badly, Aldo was tired and Hominick turned it to his side in the 5th altough lost it anyway, great display of heart by Mark though", 
        "That's probably my favourite fight of all time. Fuckin amazing. ", 
        "Wasn't Aldo ridiculously ill for this fight or something? Surprising he could even be fucked doing a push up after the fight.", 
        "He lied man. He always lies when he has a bad performance. Same way he lied about breaking his rib and sent a fake x-ray from a previous injury to the press. Same way he lied about juicing. Didn't even leave it all in the cage. [Ask Lawler or Condit if they could do pushups after their fight.](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/K81We7RpXZw/hqdefault.jpg) ", 
        "Yea, he was taking antibiotics until wednesday on fight week.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You're in the wrong thread dude.", 
        "haha oh shit ill delete that, cheers.", 
        "\"That's a world class hematoma right there, Mike.\"\n\n\"If there was a hematoma Hall of Fame, that one would be in it, Joe.\"", 
        "With a cameo from Forehead-Potato.", 
        "Jose Aldo is still the Featherweight champion of the UPC.", 
        "I thought Nate Diaz was the champ now.", 
        "I laughed so hard in the fight against KZ", 
        "Wat", 
        "he laughed so hard in the fight against KZ", 
        "More lazy cunts expending energy after the fight that they should have spent during the fight. \n\n\n\nYou're basically saying to the paying fans \" Fuck you, look how much energy I got left\"", 
        "They *can* expend that energy during the fight, but they'd get knocked out or gassed. ", 
        "*Let me tell you something, pendejo. You pull any of your crazy shit with us, you flash a piece out on the lanes, I'll take it away from you, stick it up your ass and pull the fucking trigger 'til it goes \"click.\"*", 
        "Laughable! HAHA!", 
        "*Jesus.*", 
        "DAMN RIGHT!", 
        "You said it mon!", 
        "Eight year olds, Dude. ", 
        "http://puu.sh/nL4kr/4baa2d02c0.jpg", 
        "You're out of your element Donnie.", 
        "I was hoping for the gif of them rubbing their balls. I'm not mad.", 
        "8-year-olds, Dude.", 
        "Nobody fucks with the Jesus !", 
        "ITT: People who don't understand he's constantly being asked about McGregor, not just bringing him up constantly. ", 
        "[removed]", 
        "http://i52.tinypic.com/25krk87.jpg", 
        "I love the thought of Werdum hitting someone with a chair!    It's like a nuclear bomb throwing a knife at you.  ", 
        "This is great ", 
        "\"In Brazil, we call them prostitutes, because they do anything for money. He's a sellout. Of course it's important to fight for money, but that guy will sell out for anything. I wouldn't doubt he would sell out his ass. I wouldn't do it.\" Damn!", 
        "Hah except Conor is the single biggest driving  force behind fighters getting paid a worthy wage. ", 
        "You might be right.\nThe upside for Conor is that he gets the biggest piece of that cake, downside is that his way doing it will make other fighter mad. I think respect and honor is HUUGE to every fighter, they can handle a bit of trash talk to sell a fight, but if you go the Conor rout, you have to expect some people to get really pissed. No mater the bigger picture(money wise)", 
        "Lmao, that's pretty funny. But why is the champ so mad? Is it just a brazilian pride thing?", 
        "I think its mostly from the GO BIG press conference where CMG went a bit over the top with the insults and who he was insulting, plus yea, Cheezuz is quite the popular guy over there, so theirs that. I also think him and Aldo are quite close and he is doing allot of the trash talk for Aldo, but that's just me speculating.", 
        "Calling every expatriate a traitor by extension probably won't go over well, especially when you claim that Brazilians are also rejecting their own athletes in favor of you.", 
        "Yep, but the mind games worked though i'm sad to say.", 
        "He is not mad at all, reading the portuguese text he seems to be joking and talking lightheartedly 100% of the time, just making fun of McGregor.", 
        "Cool, wasn't sure if I missed something.", 
        "Damm. Why are people bashing on Werdum because he's Catholic??? Sometimes mma fans surprise with how much petty shit they care about. ", 
        "\"You don't understand man, his beliefs are oppressing us!\"", 
        "Something as simple as a tattoo can get people up in a riot. ", 
        "Because Reddit is 90% Atheist millennial cry-bullies", 
        "Lol only 90%? ", 
        "99%", 
        "Hey, no for gay Jesus.", 
        "It's more of reddit really that will bash someone just cuz of their beliefs. ", 
        "More like the liberal people on reddit.\n\nFunny how these people always talk about tolerance and yet lack tolerance towards anyone that doesn't share the same views as them", 
        "You can be liberal and think religion is stupid. Some ideologies are just bullshit, liberalism doesn't mean universal acceptance ", 
        "What does that have to do with anything i said? You can think anything is stupid, that doesn't give you the right to shit on other people. I think XXL trucks are stupid if used for any reason other than towing or moving but I don't go around shitting on people who drive them. \n\nLiberals cry for tolerance and yet they go and do the opposite. Go to any college campus and say you like trump. Watch them mock and ridicule you.\n\nThe same liberals who are shitting on Catholics and christian are the same ones doing their damn best to defend Islam.\n\nThat is hypocrisy  at its finest. \n\nedit: and when i mean liberal, I mean the modern day SJW leftist.", 
        "> What does that have to do with anything i said? \n\nYou said liberal people talk about tolerance yet lack tolerance. This makes no sense. Liberalism is not about tolerance. In a nutshell it's about being open to new ideas, while staying true to liberty and equality. \n\nHow are you gonna argue \"liberals do xxxx\" to me, a liberal that doesn't do \"xxxxx\"? I don't \"do my best to defend islam\". THIS is why this world is soon fucked. People like you don't want to actually talk to people like me. You just make stupid assumptions and cast them on all of \"us\". \n\nWhen we speak of tolerance we speak of racial and religious tolerance. You're free to worship whatever you please, I tolerate it. That doesn't mean I don't think you're following a stupid ideology. \n\nBut on a serious note, go read the wiki page on liberalism because you don't know anything about liberalism", 
        "That's how it is with most people that don't shut up about certain things.\n\nDenial by projection is strong.", 
        "\"If you are part of a club that hides and protects pedophiles and is anti gay and anti abortion own up to it. Its not intolerance man. Am I supposed to be tolerant of isis or rapists now too?\" -/r/athiesm", 
        "\"but that guy will sell out for anything. I wouldn't doubt he would sell out his ass.\"\n\nSounds interested", 
        "I'm not surprised motherfuckers", 
        "WOT", 
        "Could Fabricio make a better trollface than Jesus, or is that blasphemous to even suggest such a thing?", 
        "Every time I see a Werdum article he's going on about McGregor, you'd think he'd give it a rest. Talk about Stipe a bit until one of you get injured please.\n\nI was in the line for the 196 weigh ins and he was passing by in a car and shouted \"fuck Conor\" out the window at us. The man's obsessed.", 
        "Why did you ask about Connor as he was driving by? Rude. ", 
        "> I was in the line for the 196 weigh ins and he was passing by in a car and shouted \"fuck Conor\" out the window at us. The man's obsessed.\n\nAs a McGregor fan, that's one of the funniest things I've heard.\n\nEdit: Jesus, the inability to laugh or make jokes about Conor from some of his fans, gives all of his fans a bad name. Werdum is known for being a huge troll, he was obviously joking. It was funny when Conor did it to Jose, it's funny now.", 
        "I think he's probably just being asked about Conor a lot recently and reporters use his answers as headlines that make it seem he's constantly calling him out. Or else he just knows talking shit about Conor is the best way to get media attention in MMA right now.", 
        "> I was in the line for the 196 weigh ins and he was passing by in a car and shouted \"fuck Conor\" out the window at us. The man's obsessed.\n\n\"asked\"", 
        "He's probably being asked about McGregor.", 
        "> I was in the line for the 196 weigh ins and he was passing by in a car and shouted \"fuck Conor\" out the window at us. The man's obsessed.\n\n\"asked\"", 
        "Never mind, I'm a dumbass. I see it now.\n\nStill not proof tho. Guy could just be full of shit. Probably is.", 
        "Where is this even from? Is his supposed to be evidence?", 
        "Says a random guy on reddit", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Werdum is also a fighter at a heavier weight class. You (Conor) shouldnt call out people you can never fight.\n\nThat is the actual meaning of wolf tickets.", 
        "Hold on now, Bellator exists, Japan exists, this fight can happen. ", 
        "The gods would be pleased with this sacrifice", 
        "I thought the actual meaning of wolf tickets was that you're bluffing. To buy someone's wolf tickets is to call their bluff... No?", 
        "Right. Conor is talking trash to Werdum because they can never fight. So Conor is selling wolf tickets.\n\nI guess you could say Werdum is buying them saying \"do that and ill hurt you\".", 
        "I don't think wolf tickets means what you think it means.", 
        "Thats exactly what it means. I used the term growing up.\n\nIts also called woof tickets because its like those dogs that bark a lot when you are outside the gate but run away when you enter it.", 
        "Don't bother with these people. ", 
        "Thanks for posting the actual definition. Its crazy how people are telling me I'm wrong when I'm using the actual definition.\n\nIts like people who use literally then followed by a metaphor or exaggeration.", 
        "[wolf tickets](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=wolf+tickets)", 
        "*Here's the Urban Dictionary definition of* [***wolf tickets***](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=wolf+tickets) : \n\n---\n\n>1)To speak aggressively to someone without intending to back it up with violence.\n\n>2)to do a favor which is redeemable by a favor.\n\n\n---\n\n_1)\"He's selling wolf tickets\", meaning he's barking but not going to bite._\n\n_2)\"i'm calling in all my wolf tickets to get this guy\", meaning all people who owe will help me out._\n\n\n---\n\n[^(about)](http://www.reddit.com/r/autourbanbot/wiki/index) ^| [^(flag for glitch)](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/autourbanbot&subject=bot%20glitch&message=%0Acontext:https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4ayad1/if_he_tries_to_snatch_my_belt_i_would_first_have/d14m7hp) ^| ^(**Summon**: urbanbot, what is something?)", 
        "Yeah that's not what wolf tickets means", 
        "It's the MMA media's obsession with headlining every quote about Conor even if it was one second from a 2 hour interview.", 
        "Not any weirder than your obsession with Conor. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "How bout that flair, idiot.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "That's fucking right, idiot. You're like a fucking twilight fan girl.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Except that you like to fuck werewolves and suck vampire cock", 
        "Really Jesus is the line for him?  That's disappointing to me.  Insult real people, sure that's okay but insult my imaginary friend and you've gone too far.", 
        "Wow.  I didn't realize how religious this sub is.  ", 
        "Religious people are just very sensitive so it seems like there are more of them than there really are because they are so vocal.  \n\nI've gotten downvoted more for the random offhand positive Conor comment though so they aren't that bad.", 
        "> but insult my imaginary friend\n\nSo edgy,brah\n\n", 
        "It's funny 'cuz it's true.", 
        "Wow you sound like a real dick. Religion is important to a lot of people.", 
        "A lot of ignorant people, yeah.", 
        "SO? There are thousands of religions and I can talk as much shit about either one of them as I want, the fact that your juvenile brain can't distinguish between reality and fantasy doesn't mean I can't have my fun. People need to get the fuck over themselves.", 
        "Respecting another person's faith or right to one has little to do with believing it. Stop being so needlessly disrespectful.", 
        "I respect everyones \"right\", I don't respect anybody's stupid fucking faith though. Just like I don't respect people's political ideology such as nazism or communism or whatever. You are giving IDEAS rights that they don't deserve. No ideas should ever be protected.\n\nPS. Jesus is a lesbian black woman", 
        "I don't agree with you but I respect your opinion. Even if it's batshit insane.", 
        "Haha dude just sounds like he never outgrew the teenage phase of thinking its cool and bad ass to come off as an ignorant dick.", 
        "Haha you sound like you never outgrew believing in fairy tales. Don't mouth off to me or Santa isn't giving you shit this year.", 
        "Hahah what did I say that even alluded to a belief in fairy tales?  Now you're just not making any sense at all.", 
        "Your over-defensiveness about religion speaks for itself.", 
        "Genuinely curious, why are you so impassioned about an internet argument?", 
        "Religion, especially the abrahamic ones, are the root of all evil.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/5P11lvj.jpg", 
        "Do NOT make fun of Fabricio's imaginary friend. You have been warned.", 
        "or trt-Vitor's buddy Jesus. Bisping knows how that'll go", 
        "Fuck off with that pretentious atheist shit.  Religion is still a huge thing that is very important to people.  ", 
        ">Pretentious: attempting to impress by affecting greater importance, talent, culture, etc., than is actually possessed.\n\nSounds like religion to me... you know, personal relationships with the creator of the universe, and whatnot. Oh, right, it's a \"huge thing,\" so not pretentious at all, I guess.\n\n:)", 
        "Ha, good one. ", 
        "So is Communism. Religions are sets of ideas and they are subject to the same ridicule and scrutiny as any other set of ideas.", 
        "There's a big difference between criticizing religion in discussion and the average atheist redditor frothing at the mouth at any chance to make fun of someone for religion being important to them.  ", 
        "Come on now, can you claim to seriously think that OP's comment falls under the ''atheist redditor frothing at the mouth'' headline? Your reaction to that simple act of mockery is what I see all the time, name another set of ideas that you would rush to defend so stridently based on nothing but the fact that people are really attached to them? \n\nThis is why people clash over religion on reddit, one side treats all ideas the same while the other insists that you must be respectful to religious ideas which always ends up meaning ''don't point out the ridiculous stuff like you would do with every other set of ideas''. Well if people insist on believing this stuff and talking about it then I will keep ridiculing them for it.\n\nJust imagine me asking people here to do the following. ''Not vaccinating is really important to Faber so be very respectful of that belief. And don't be rude about the validity of movement coaches because they're really important to Conor and Condit no matter what you think personally.'' These ideas and beliefs are just as un-special as religious ones, how much someone cares means absolutely nothing, *absolutely* nothing.", 
        "It is one of the most important things in his life, and it is personal. Yes, you CAN make fun of him for believing in Jesus, or loving his wife if you don't think she is a good person, or loving his children if you think they are shitty. But that doesn't mean you aren't an edgelord ass and no one finds it funny.", 
        "It's funny that twice now in reply to my comment people have thought to question my personal character because I advocated for criticising beliefs. I haven't made any personal attack on anybody because of what they believe, the mere suggestion that I might ridicule someone's ideas is enough to have you make the kind of personal judgement you would call me an edgelord ass for making.", 
        "> Come on now, can you claim to seriously think that OP's comment falls under the ''atheist redditor frothing at the mouth'' headline?\n\nHe is literally an atheist, he regularly posts in /r/atheism.  In combination with making a mockery out of it by saying \"imaginary friend\", of course I consider him the average reddit atheist looking for an opportunity to make fun of religion.  \n\n>one side treats all ideas the same while the other insists that you must be respectful to religious ideas which always ends up meaning ''don't point out the ridiculous stuff like you would do with every other set of ideas''. \n\nThis is total bullshit.  Reddit used to be chock full of religious discussion and pointing out the bullshit in it, but people were just fucking tired of hearing it so it was quarantined to /r/atheism where it belongs.  There isn't any sort of denial on reddit, people just got tired of pretentious atheists who claim to be \"discussing\" religion, but in reality the only thing that will satisfy them is to be told \"okay you win, I'm stupid and my beliefs are stupid.\"  I'm an atheist myself, but shit like this:\n\n>Well if people insist on believing this stuff and talking about it then I will keep ridiculing them for it.\n\nis what turned me away from any sort of atheist community or supporting atheists on reddit.  Everyone gets it, you think religion is so silly and just *can't seem to understand* why anyone takes it seriously!  Omg how can they?!  It's just so ridiculous to have those beliefs!  Well, most of the world has them.  They are very, very important to people.  But if it's *that* important to you that you are able to openly treat their religious beliefs as any other mundane belief to the point of mockery, then you're probably just an asshole.  \n", 
        "Yep, most of the world holds religious beliefs, and the criticism (in all forms) of those beliefs is what makes most religions tolerable today, and the one we *really* can't criticise openly is by far the most dangerous haven't you noticed.\n\n Satire and mockery are just some of the tools used to undermine the beliefs that impact greater society negatively, honest discussion is another tool and it is the honest opinion of most atheists that the core faith claims of all religions are bogus. That opinion is enough to solicit accusations of being a disrespectful asshole.\n\n You still haven't moved beyond 'it's very important to people' which means nothing when questioning historical events and if the laws of physics can be suspended. You confirmed my point about how the two sides treat religion as a topic with your very last sentence. Would I be an asshole if I criticised and satirised scientology like it was any other idea? How about the people who think Elvis is alive? Flat earth society? ", 
        "Dude again, there is a massive difference between discussion and ridicule/mockery.  Everything you just said I agree with and is perfectly reasonable to question, but those are questions in line with *discussion*, not mockery.  Do you understand what I mean?  I'll reiterate my last sentence you took issue with:\n\n>But if it's that important to you that you are able to openly treat their religious beliefs as any other mundane belief **to the point of mockery**, then you're probably just an asshole. \n\nThere are a zillion problems with religion, like I said I'm an atheist myself, but my point is the *way* those problems are handled.  Openly ridiculing someone for being religious is what I am against, but knowing the time and place for critical discussion is perfectly okay and great for both sides.  \n\nDoes that make sense?", 
        "We disagree about mockery and ridicule, but it may be a difference in definition or a misunderstanding of a previous point. I propose ridiculing ideas not people and you may have misunderstood my position. I said I would ridicule them for their ideas, but as I tried to explain everywhere else it's the idea we should mock and not the person. \n\n I put comedy, cartoons, music, art and other satire into these categories of mockery and ridicule, essential components of tackling ideas but clearly different from honest discussion in many possible ways. If you accept this then what is deemed acceptable in any instance of mockery relies purely on taste. Again, we may be in agreement here.", 
        "I guess the difference is that I don't put those things you listed into the same category as mocking someone specifically, but otherwise I agree with you.  \n\nIf Gary were to say \"I'm a Christian\", and you laughed in his face, I'd have a problem with that - I consider it needless mockery, but if Gary said \"I believe Christianity is the most important thing for humanity\" and you laughed in his face, I wouldn't have a problem.\n\nHence my problem with that initial comment, it was needless mockery of Werdum just for having religious beliefs.  \n\nI do think we're mostly in agreement though. ", 
        "Fuck off with that pretentious capitalist bullshit. Communism is still a huge thing that is very important to people.", 
        "ITT Werdum acting like a little bitch and people downvoting criticism of him because they hate Conor", 
        "Damn, he wants that red panty night really bad.", 
        "McGregor's so deep in Werdum's mind he should pay rent. Werdum knows he's spending an awful lot of time talking shit about a FW, right?", 
        "i know right. pitiful", 
        "I mean watch the video, it's not like Dana let Conor steal the belt, he looked away for a split second and Conor was in there like a hyena.", 
        "The thing is though, is that hyenas more often make the kill, and then lions drive them away. In fact, lions will listen for the sound of hyenas calls to find a lot of their meals. Hyenas have been stigmatized and portrayed as these creepy scavengers just because lions look better.", 
        "Also the external tube vaginas.", 
        "It's a faux penis, bro.  ", 
        "You know people relate themselves to animals because of the common opinion of the animal, not an in depth study of their life style.  ", 
        "You've been hanging around that war-criminal too long, Fabricio. I liked you better as the one who trolls.", 
        "maybe he is :^)", 
        "Snatched DJ's belt, Aldo's belt. Go for the hat trick Conor", 
        "> Snatched DJ's belt\n\nWhat?\n\n", 
        "Oh you didnt hear? Conor's the flyweight champ right now", 
        "Picturing the weigh in, Conor being pushed on stage by wheelchair and being carefully placed on the scale", 
        "He will stay in the ufc if they pay him. This is different to Mitrione, Henderson and Josh Thompson situations. He is a star of the future and a genuine title contender. I doubt the ufc want to give up guys like Rory. ", 
        "All Bellator has to do is keep making big offers, with big perks, and the UFC has to keep matching them.  Eventually they are going to have to make concessions and either make less money for themselves and the company or let some bigger names go. \n\n", 
        "he already said he felt disrespected by the offer they made.\nalso said \"he will go for who pays the most for him to fight\"\nMeat is getting twice his UFC pay at Bellator, Viacom will pay more than the UFC, its a guarantee.", 
        "Unless bellator really show him the money. ", 
        "he's also the key to the canadian market. ", 
        "benson henderson has something to say.", 
        "Benson ain't no Rory. Dude got booed proposing to his wife.", 
        "I'll respond later", 
        "that was after the Gil fight that was REALLY close and also in Gil's backyard... so i mean context is somewhat important here. ", 
        "What you're saying makes sense. I can't help but think the UFC guys will tell him to get an offer elsewhere first. \n\nReal MMA fans (honestly can't think of another term) know the value of Rory. [The casuals](https://giant.gfycat.com/EntireDescriptiveGermanshorthairedpointer.gif) who outnumber us completely won't buy PPVs headlined by him unless he fights McGregor first or stars in a movie.\n\nFighters are paid not for how good they are but how much they move the PPV needle. I'll never miss a Rory bout but I don't think he'd sell a ton of PPVs.", 
        "He draws pretty decently in Canada, no? ", 
        "he'l sell out in the canadian market though", 
        "Not strictly true as PPVs are only a single part of the UFC's business strategy.  Although he's not a big PPV seller, Rory has leverage in other areas like being the UFC's (if not MMA as a whole's?) current(!) biggest star in the Canadian market. Just like Bisping is the key to the UK. ", 
        "Yep although he does not command big PPV numbers right now, the UFC may be able to get behind and promote him in Canada", 
        "I hope you're right.\n\nI'm a fan but even though I wouldn't miss one of his fights, the truth is I watch all UFC cards regardless. The Canadian fans are certainly behind him but not in the same way McGregor's got a grip on Ireland. The only way Macdonald makes the news here is by winning a title.\n\nHe'd need to show he can get a specific market who wouldn't otherwise buy a card to pick it up. GSP can do that. I'm not sure Rory has that leverage.\n\nThat leverage is what gets you paid.", 
        "Yes, Rory leaving would be a shocker.   Those other 3 actually make a ton of sense.\n\nOnly way Rory ends up in Bellator is if Wonderboy destroys him,  and even then its a long shot.", 
        "Yeah but he is being paid shit..and he knows it. \n", 
        "Yep. ", 
        "There's no way Wonderboy destroys Rory. Wonderboy could definitely take the win, but I don't see him tearing through Rory. ", 
        "Rory got really physically destroyed in his last fight, he may not have physically recovered or may never or he may be better than ever. I dunno, but saying there is no way Wonderboy destroys Rory is a big assumption right now.\n\nThat being said I pick Rory in that fight, but I am interested to see how he is going to be. ", 
        "It's definitely a possibility that Wonderboy KOs Rory. I don't think I'd bet on that happening, but Thompson is one hell of a striker and it wouldn't surprise me in the least.", 
        "I agree, but even if Wonderboy wins it won't be an easy win, not vs Rory. ", 
        "Nope. I think Rory wins this, but I'm not terribly confident in that pick. I'm psyched for this fight either way.", 
        "I didn't see Wonderboy tearing through Hendricks either but it happened... Wonderboy is an absolutely scary contender.", 
        "I think Hendricks is way more one dimensional than Rory though, Rory / Firas are cerebral guys, not static like Hendricks.", 
        "In what way is Hendricks one-dimensional?", 
        "In a lot of ways when you compare him to someone like Stephen Thompson or Rory.", 
        "What a lackluster answer. Don't call him something if you can't explain your opinion.", 
        "You were just told that, compared to Rory, Hendricks is a one-dimensional fighter. \n\nIf you know the fighters and have seen them fight, you'd have to be pretty slow to not get it. ", 
        "That doesn't even make sense first off. You can be one dimensional, but you can't be MORE one dimensional. You can be more limited. You can be less dimensional. It's literally impossible to be MORE one dimensional. \n\nSecond just making a claim and saying compared to just shows that you, him and the Tristar fanboy tools downvoting don't actually know whatever the fuck you're talking about and are just repeating what you heard like a monkey. If you can't backup a statement don't make it. \n\nSo fuck off with that slow shit.", 
        "Rory is coming off a fight of the year title war, vs the image of Mitrione running head first into Ben Rothwell is still fresh on our minds. ", 
        "fight of ever*", 
        "travid browne scooped mitriones eye out also dont forget", 
        "Use you're leverage and get the best deal possible.\n\nI feel like Dillashaws comments were kind of silly in that regard, saying he did the company a favour taking Soto on short notice and never got a bonus for it. Leverage for one then.\n\nDon't ever just assume anything, if it's not in writing it doesn't mean a thing.\n\nOne hidden benefit to Conor talking about the millions he is making is it forces other fighters to look at themselves. When one guy publicly brags about this much or that much, and using leverage and knowing the numbers etc, it opens up the idea to other guys to start doing the same thing.\n\n", 
        "He also said \"no problem\" when they asked ... He could've said \"I want some more\"", 
        "Exactly, when they called Nate he didn't say no problem, he said sure but not for what you pay me currently. \n\nThey desperately needed a fight and he used his leverage, guys need to start doing more of that.\n\nIf Bellator offer Rory 300/300 and sponsorship, he can take that to the UFC and say this is what I want minimum or I walk. Or he can say I want this plus more headline shows in Canada etc.\n\nPlaying the game doesn't have to mean talking trash like Conor, it just means being aware of what you bring to the table and getting you're value.\n\n", 
        "Yeah ... TJ could've asked for something like \"show and win is now both to show ... And add 100 grand\" ... Too many guys don't use their leverage.", 
        "Let the conspiracy theories begin.", 
        "I bet he's having a baby and has decided he wants to be paid properly. I'd say he sat down with a manager or someone else who knows the business, and they decided the best thing is to start complaining about his pay, talking about free agency, and liking things on twitter in a suspicious manner.\n\nFighters have got to be looking at Conor and seeing that there's no upper limit on the worth the UFC can put on you. As long as you have a realistic idea of what you are worth (and I bet Rory does, given his solid no. 1 contender spot for the last while, and FOTY 2015) you know what to negotiate for. The worst thing you could do is say that you never want to fight outside the UFC. If they actually think you might leave (as I'm sure they're wondering with Rory now) they will absolutely up their offer. ", 
        "He and his GF are having a baby girl ", 
        "He realised how expensive diapers are", 
        "$245,000\nTo raise a child born in 2013 to the age of 18, it will cost a middle-income couple just over $245,000, according to newly released estimates from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. \n\nmaking 50k a fight for only a couple of years is no way close enough for his life", 
        "*heads out to buy condoms*", 
        "Rory is a sleeper agent Scott Coker created. Rory was designed to go become a huge star in the UFC, and then initiate a mass exodus to Bellator. The Red King is only fulfilling prophecy", 
        "Would you say he is a robot of some kind? Possibly a go-bot?", 
        "Rory, rollout!", 
        "He knows how to play ball", 
        "Exactly.  It's just negotiating.  But Dana needs to be [careful](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bz6P2JNlBHk).", 
        "https://youtu.be/sr9_GfeoCjk?t=23s", 
        "Why are people acting like you're basing Rory wanting to leave based on just liking Mitrione's tweet?  Are they not aware that he flat out said he's not happy with his pay and going into the last fight of his deal just a week ago?  Rory absolutely could be on his way out if he can get a better offer from Bellator or someone else. ", 
        "Quit being rational.", 
        "That's a big leap friend", 
        "If the UFC lets them go maybe they are trying to sell because they obviously don't give a fuck anymore.", 
        "Who is the 'them' you are talking about? Rory is still there. ", 
        "him", 
        "If the UFC lose top tier guys like Rory, it will be the start of their demise, maybe.", 
        "Wagenheim got it right on the MMA Beat yesterday; Rory's got a kid on the way and realised he is grossly underpaid and needs to pay for his families future.\n\nThe Reebok deal has done more for fighters view of their own worth than anything else.", 
        "A friend told me that once his daughter was born the entirety of his life resolved into clarity and focus. He quit his job. Started his own company. Major life changes happen when you have a life that depends on you.", 
        "Right on one hand be beaten half to death with permanent brain damage in the UFC by top welterweights or fight cans in Bellator for probably more money. Coupled with the fact he just had a child.\n\nYou are crazy if you think he has some kind of loyalty to the UFC. \n\nBenson had a child then did the same thing.\n\n", 
        "Rory fighting Thompson is a huge gamble.  Big chance he loses, and gets paid less.  But then again, I think he is the toughest fight at WW for Thompson.\n\nHe could have taken an easier fight and an almost guaranteed win and sailed into FA on a winning note.", 
        "Rory has put up some epic fights for the UFC to be honest. I'm surprised they haven't signed him already and no doubt he is a little pissed that he isn't getting respected for his contributions. The Canadian market sits on Rory's shoulders right now so Dana better pony up. I don't think they'll pull PPV numbers in Canada very well if Rory lands in Bellator.", 
        "He is playing the game,   that is all.   ", 
        "Good detective work, Watson. ", 
        "I think he will stay, he will probably shop around Bellator and other places, get them to trump UFC's deal, then UFC will match the deal, and then get companies to trump that deal, and the cycle will continue. Rory has Canada behind him, hell, at UFC 189, they were chanting for Rory to win. Drop Rory and they will damage their stronghold on Canada a bit.", 
        "It wont be a bidding war.   When Rory presents an outside offer to the UFC,   the UFC just has to match or decline and everything is done.\n\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "What are you basing him being an underrated businessman on?", 
        "In contrast to Mitrione, Rory's actually a contender viewers give a shit about. He will stay.", 
        "Also: not pushing 40 with a handful of fights left.", 
        "How many times did Sterling shit on the UFC? And did he leave the UFC? No", 
        "Rory isn't going anywhere. The people who has gone to Bellator have no future at the very highest level of the sport, which is why the UFC let them go.\n\nRory is the future of the sport, and they'll want to keep him and pay hom.\n", 
        "I think Rory is just posturing. I mean I think he would definitely take the Bellator offer if they give him an amazing deal, but I think he's hoping for a better UFC offer.", 
        "Rory aint going nowhere, UFC knows he is a big draw, especially after the fight of the century vs Robbie. ", 
        "He hasn't even fought Wonderboy yet. Probably just trying to get more $$$ from the UFC when that contract negotiation rolls around.", 
        "Jesus christ jumping the gun much\n", 
        "Biggest free agent signing for Belator ever if he leaves. Right?", 
        "Nice work, detective ", 
        "I can't help but think that UFC gave him the wonderboy fight in an attempt to hurt his negotiating position as its quite possible that he'll lose. ", 
        "Omg he liked a tweet, he must be quitting the ufc.", 
        "2016 the great UFC exodus. ", 
        "Well shit. UFC paid him $59k for Lawler fight. $59k. Its laughable for what he brings to the table. \n", 
        "Don't really mind where he goes. 170 in the UFC is super stacked anyway but he is obviously near the top and possible future champ. Whereas in Bellator he could be a dominant champion, get big sponsors and probably earn more money.\n\nHe is in a good position as he is young and could still come back to the UFC later on in his career after becoming a Bellator champ. ", 
        "They're gonna match any offer he gets. He won't go anywhere ", 
        "Rory, Benson, Ellenberger, Lima, Koreshkov, Daley and Page. This looks tasty. Plus, I wouldn't mind seeing Askren back. ", 
        "WAR BELLATOR", 
        "Rory isn't gonna get that title shot if he keeps that up, regardless if he wins against Thompson", 
        "The exodus of 'names' has begun from the UFC. If Rory stays, that's nice but more and more are going. The kind of people who have names but not very top tier. The kind of people who can get sponsors and the Reebok really hurt.", 
        "Toptier shitpost. ", 
        "It's a win win win for everything involved if top fighters start leaving the UFC.  Fans get more shows, fighters start getting paid more, and it forces  the UFC to stop being so greedy if they want to keep the top names and top PPV's in the sport.", 
        "Honestly the old Rory would rather stay in the ufc for the competition, but now that he's a dad and took that robbie beating idk where his mind is ", 
        "I honestly don't know if thats the case, he's wanted more money for a long time, he thought going for the title would get him more, but since he lost the UFC doesn't feel as though they should give him more when they most definitely should.", 
        "True, we never know the full story but he def deserves more", 
        "here comes the waterfall of fighters leaving. UFC did this to themselves. Even Weidman cant afford his $90k truck after he lost that belt contract to Rockhold.\n\nbtw don't flame me just kidding about Weidman.\n", 
        "He also was the headliner in ufc 100, amazing", 
        "Even more amazing, his first UFC fight was UFC 34. ", 
        "That's amazing. I would push to get on UFC 200 as well. Obviously not main event again but would still be special. ", 
        "UFC 100 was the first card I ever watched.  I was hooked.", 
        "Same here! GSP GSP GSP", 
        "Gonna Sleep Perfectly", 
        "I don't care Georges, hit him with your groin!", 
        "francis motherfucking murrrr!!!\n\n\nsure, he can be a cocky and arrogant asshole, but c'mon, that is the fight game.  he has shown us some incredible things over the years.  \n\n\ni have no idea who is going to win, and am a huge fan of mirs and hunts, but i will say this.\n\n\nMark,  if he gets the sub on you, tap.  he will break whatever it is in two.  ", 
        "I'm a big fan of both fighters, I just hope they put on a good show and neither guy gets badly hurt.", 
        "I honestly don't think he's that cocky or arrogant. I think he just speaks his mind and calls a spade a spade. If an opponent made a mistake, he points it out.\n\nI've seen interviews where he is *highly* critical of himself and he talks of himself in the same \"arrogant\" manner as he talks of his opponents. I really like that about Mir. He was a great commentator for that reason, too.", 
        "Yeah I'm a big fan of Mir, always has a reasonable analysis in my opinion.\n\nAlso him submitting Brock made me realise what MMA was all about.", 
        "Mir and Overeem are very similar in the way they talk about fighting and how analytical they are. To a lot of people that somehow comes off as arrogant when they are just saying things as they see it. They are both live by the sword die by the sword type of fighters too so they generally look either great or bad.", 
        "Yup, people hear Mir talk about his opponents and assume he's an arrogant asshole, but he's the same with himself. \n\nArrogance is having your opponent basically finished off, then deciding that you want to prove your BJJ is better than your opponents, getting your own arm snapped in the process.", 
        "Mir is one I will ALWAYS root for, rain or shine. Mir is legend.", 
        "and he is only 36. ", 
        "One of the younger guys in the division!", 
        "Legend. Still fighting at the highest level too. And I had him winning the fight with Arlovski for what it's worth.", 
        "Frank Mir IS the fucking UFC. Love this man", 
        "War Mir ", 
        "War Hunt", 
        "Hunt's 2nd last fight too ", 
        "wait why where did you here this", 
        "http://www.mmamania.com/2014/8/28/6079403/ufc-mark-hunt-inks-new-six-fight-deal-with-ufc-will-retire-upon-completion-mma", 
        "And the award for Best Support Fighter goes to.... Frank Mir. ", 
        "I've been a fan of Frank's for years. He's had his ups and downs, but damn the guy has put up some amazing performances over the years. Was watching him fight Big Nog at a local bar. I'll never forget the way that place erupted when he snapped Nog's arm!! ", 
        "Is it bad of me to think that the heavyweight division is the most boring in the UFC?\n\nI just can't get hyped for them as much as I used to when Sylva and Arlovski were in their primes.", 
        "because the division is still shitty , most fighters are LHW who don't cut (jon jones is as big as Werdum ) & the athleticism is really shitty .\n\njust compare the average height & weights of top ufc fighters with those of top boxers & kick-boxers . it's really sad in comparison.\n\nafter all those years brock lesnar is still the  biggest & most athletic guy in the division by a mile , & that really say's it all .  \n", 
        "Inactive Cain ruined the division. Brock leaving left a huge entertainment hole for most viewers as well. It also seems like the same 4 or 5 guys fighting the past 5 years. I must say Verdume has been a breath of fresh air and his up coming fight is going to be a war.", 
        "Savage spelling of Werdum ", 
        "haha I knew I was off but too lazy to google.", 
        "Normalized to his weight class, that's some impressive longevity", 
        "Well, Tito has fought a lot in the UFC. Who would have thought if you relied on what the UFC says.", 
        "He has that early 2000's american aesthetic down", 
        "Man I still don't know how he came back into it with Duffee like that", 
        "It's pretty impressive, especially considering his time off after the accident. ", 
        "Wow I can't believe Tito has fought 27 times in the UFC.  ", 
        "I haven't seen Tito Ortiz fights but he was a UFC champion and as far as I understand is considered a legend. Yet, everytime I read a comment about him a joke is made about him, he is always reffered as some sort of a clown. What's the deal with Tito Ortiz?", 
        "He's a former great fighter who has carried on well past his prime while being kind of a goof of a person.\r\rTito's public speaking is legendarily terrible.", 
        "His prime was 2000ish until about 2006, honestly not a lot of current mma fans were watching back then.  The end of his career in the UFC is just a wall of losses and excuses.  He just happened to be on the downward trend as the UFC started their upwards momentum.  He legit carried the UFC during the darkdays though. It also doesn't help when he talks he either seems petty or stupid.  His first fight with forrest griffin is probably his best fight, def worth checking out. ", 
        "Right. People who started watching Tito's fights against Chuck, or the later ones, don't realize how dominant he was in that division. He didn't have the credentials of someone like Dan Henderson, but was an excellent MMA wrestler who beat many of the toughest guys of his day -- Bohlander, Mezger, Wanderlei Silva, Yuki Kondo, Evan Tanner, etc. He beat Ken Shamrock back when that still meant something, lost to prime Frank Shamrock in a great fight, and nearly subbed Machida at the height of the \"Machida Era.\" Along with Frank Shamrock, he helped push the role of cardio in MMA. He's hurt his legacy, but he's still one of the very few people in MMA or sports in general who I'd cross a room to meet.", 
        "> What's the deal with Tito Ortiz?\n\nHe has a giant head.", 
        ">Mir is the only fighter UFC history to earn three technical submission victories.\n\nThis is very relevant with all the talk of not-tapping. He's also the only fighter with two non-choke technical submissions in the UFC. His [Kimura against Nogueira](http://i.imgur.com/grjistz.gif) and [his armbar against Sylvia](http://i.imgur.com/ksK2DJC.gif)", 
        "Was not originally a fan but the same thing happened to me that happens to any fighter that can stick around at the level for so long, I eventually like them. I also enjoy hearing him talk about the sport more than most fighters, very intelligent man when it comes to the fight game. ", 
        "Imagine what Mir could have been without the motorcycle accident.", 
        "The arm display at Ronda's house is like going to an art gallery.\n\nThe arm display at House of Mir is like being on shrooms in Ed Gein's house.", 
        "I want to see a sub so that he can match Diaz for the most subs in the modern era. ", 
        "For sure UFC Hall of Fame when he retires", 
        "This is really a great card. ", 
        "He is also tied in second place for the most finishes - this record currently held by Anderson Silva. ", 
        "Cant see Frank Mir winning this. His last fights he was swinging wild, but yeah you can never count Mir out he might get a miracle sub on the ground or who knows Hunt might suddenly loose his might chin.", 
        "He subbed Nogueira, there's no such thing as a frank Mir miracle sub ", 
        "However HW fights are like 90% standup these days. Even Werdum who is probably the best BJJ guy in the division isnt pull guard(his guard is the best) or trying to take people down. ", 
        "Frank Mir is a submission artist. He doesn't need a miracle for his jiu-jitsu to do its thing. He's also knocked out a few of the toughest guys on the planet. And it's not like Hunt has never been finished.\n\nHe has a decent shot at this. ", 
        "So what's that in Reebok money, $25 and a groupon for a Cinnabon?", 
        "I am no bjj expert but the EBI really seems to have found a formula that allows bjj to work as a competition sport. ", 
        "i think it is a good format for casual grappling viewers becasue of its pace and likelihood for subs. i do BJJ,have been to every ADCC since 2007, coached at some of the ADCCs and other events.      \nAs a grappling fan i enjoy both types of grappling (sub only and points). The sub only is fun due to the pace and the opportunity to see odd subs. the downside to sub only (IMO) is that there is nobody fighting for position (takedowns sweeps etc) as it doesn't reward anything.  in that regard the sub only is actually less realistic in terms of a fight, in many ways.    \non the flip side points based competitions can be very dull to the non-grappling enthusiast because they fight so hard for position and will no go for subs until good position is secured.     \n       \ntl;dr points and sub only both have their good and bad sides.\n", 
        "Did you mean spectator sport?", 
        "The overtime rules are pretty bunk. The idea is that after regulation time expires, the grapplers will be put in back mount or spider-web/armbar position, and that they will try their best to finish their opponents from these dominant positions.\n\nBut, if neither guy gets the submission in one of those three goes, then the win goes to whoever held the positions for longer. But, as we have already seen, this frequently turns into guys picking the back-mount position, and then locking on a body triangle to build up riding time. It's how Joe Soto beat Geo Martinez and Joao Miyao in EBI 4.", 
        "Hey man if you've got a better solution we're all ears.  Atleast we're not watching guys ride out one advantage for 12 minutes in the gi.", 
        "The competitors get a whole 10 minutes to try and submit their opponents. The Overtime rules are a necessary evil, and a lot of good jiu-jitsu happens during Overtime. Can you think of something better that eventually will end the match fairly? ", 
        "You say a \"whole ten minutes\", but that is not a long time at all in jiu jitsu. The first five minutes is usually a feeling out process.", 
        "I thought Eddie said that they count time for the defensive player and how long it takes them to get out of the position if there are no subs? \n\nPerson A has the back and doesn't submit Person B. Person B takes 1 minute to get out of the position\n\nPerson B has the back and doesn't submit Person A and then person B takes 1 minute 40 to get out of the position.\n\nThat means Person B wins. I could be completely wrong and misunderstanding what he said though!", 
        "opponents get the same shot to ride the back. Also, there was grumbling that Joe Soto was greased up which is a huge advantage   ", 
        "Thd OT rules are *fair*, but that doesn't mean they aren't still dumb and artificial.\n\nAnd also, I have never heard any of the greasing allegations against Soto. He was probably just sweaty from being shirtless, where Miyao had a rash guard on.", 
        "Eddie himself hinted at it. It's also why rashguards became mandatory from ebi 5", 
        "I think it's the best version of overtime rules for sub-only. It's not perfect, but I think it works very well.\n\n* It's often decided by a submission\n\n* If there's no submission, it's still decided by grappling skills. Control and escapes are very important skills\n\n* It incentivizes people who are behind on riding time to work aggressively for a submission.\n\n* There's no ties, which allows them to do a tournament format.", 
        "The whole riding time thing, or placing athletes into the back-mount/spider-web positions in general, is just too artificial to me. I guess it's the best thing outside of true unlimited time limit matches, but it still feels kind of dumb.\n\nIf EBI is going to market themselves as a sub-only competition, then they need to give these guys longer than ten minutes to get the job done. Give them fifteen, or twenty minutes at least. The overtime rules should only be used as a last resort, to keep the ball rolling.", 
        "I dont like the ride time rule either.\nAs long as you have 3 judges there (eddie and time keeper x2) why not just do that? Ya its subjective but it will force action and not reward hanging on for dear life.", 
        "The problem with having longer matches is they're all in series. A 16-man tournament of 20-minute matches would be 5-hours long minimum. Through in a superfight and ain't nobody got time for that. I do think the final should be unlimited-time,sub only, no breaks.", 
        "EBI runs at a great pace. I think they could go 15 minutes and eliminate the super fights. And an unlimited time-limit finals match would be great.", 
        "I think those tweaks could work well if they implemented them. Winning by riding time in the final would seem anti-climactic.\n\nI think the general idea of their overtime rules makes sense, making each grappler work from a position with high likelihood of submission. They could try and adjust the rules to discourage holding back control with a body lock, just because that can seem boring. Maybe, only allow grapplers to start in spider web for overtime.\n\nI want to add that I think that how fast you can safely escape back control is a decent test of your grappling skill.", 
        "I think that demonstrates exactly why you're right: They actually appeal to people who aren't experts.", 
        "There was hope in Metamoris  too but Ralek Gracie is a scummy fuck and ruined a good thing. ", 
        "I'm a not a bbj practitioner, just a fan of MMA and this is the first BJJ competition I find entertaining to watch. Never got into the point style competitions.", 
        "As the BJJ pracitioner I agree. I never understood the point system. Awards points for position but not for danger. \n\nFor example, someone passes guard to side control, they get points. Is the bottom person in danger? If the top person stalls pinning them down, then technically no since they can both just sit there for eternity and not be in trouble. \n\nIf the top person uses side control to go for a submission is the bottom person in danger? Yes, but the top person doesn't get points for that...\n\nFor some reason this is makes sense in MMA but not BJJ - for example, a take-down with no damage after, is not consider worth much since nothing was done with the advancement. Also stalling in someones guard with no damage inflicted is considered passive and if the person on the bottom is active, then the bottom person is winning.\n\n", 
        "> If the top person uses side control to go for a submission is the bottom person in danger? Yes, but the top person doesn't get points for that...\n\nNo, but they get a submission.\n\n", 
        "If it fails, no point are awarded, and nothing changes. Position doesn't mean danger if they are not threatening anything.", 
        "> If it fails, no point are awarded, and nothing changes.\n\nExactly. So what do they have to lose to go for the submission?", 
        "Position.  If you go for submissions in the point style BJJ tournaments and your opponent ends up on top after escaping, your opponent is rewarded as he should be.  But, you could avoid this altogether by just stalling.  \n\nThe rulesets in point style BJJ reward stalling and not going for submissions, which isn't at all what BJJ is about IMO.", 
        "Exactly, advancement in position should be viewed as a way to increase your chance when attempting a submission instead of the end goal.\n\nIt is like moving the ball down the field in football. Your goal is not just to get to the 10 yard line, but to get there to increase your chance of getting a touchdown.\n\n", 
        "To play devil's advocate, why does BJJ have to be about the submission? The deepest parts of the game are usually the guards and guard passes, even if submissions are off the table. I agree that something should be done to stop stalling but I don't think that the only way to not stall is to go for a submission. ", 
        "The stalling is caused by the risk of losing position on a failed submission or advancement. This means you are better off to just wait for the time to run out. By getting rid of the points, you greatly reduce the risk.\n\nIf you look at it as a life-or-death situation, passing someones guard to side control won't end the confrontation. You will both just be there for days. Passing, mounting and choking \"kills\" the opponent, thus ending the confrontation. In this view submission is everything - position is just to get there.", 
        "They give you points for mount, back, kob because those are positions you could strike from in a real fight.  ", 
        "The idea is that those dominant positions would allow you to land ground and pound in a real fight, so the points are the stand-in for that hypothetical striking. Not saying it's a good idea, I personally prefer sub-only, but that's the rationale. ", 
        "Side control really isn't too dangerous, as far as strikes go. \n\nJust as a quick mental exercise, think about how many knockouts you've seen from side control (not many) vs the mount (all the time). ", 
        "> Side control really isn't too dangerous, as far as strikes go.\n\nKnees to the head.\n\n[Side control not dangerous, you say?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iSDEkgp9OFM)", 
        "That's not a good measure of how dangerous a position is. I've seen many more people TKOed from full guard than side control, but every fighter on top would rather be in side control because it's a quick transition to mount, mounted crucifix, the back, or north-south (which is hot death with knees on the ground).", 
        "I think that might have to do with rule sets too, Knees are not allowed to a downed opponent. ", 
        "You don't get points for side control though. You get points for passing the guard which can end up in side control. So even BJJ rules understand that side control isn't dominant but it is a step to a dominant position.", 
        "Don't most points tournies award no points for side control? I'm competing in a month so I should probably know this for sure but from memory you get points for mount, back, and guard passes, but not for the actual position of side control. \n\nEDIT: IBJJF falls under that camp, check out pg 13: http://ibjjf.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/RulesIBJJF_v4_en-US.pdf (NAGA, on the other hand, does give points for side control, so I guess ymmv?)", 
        "Pride rules with knees to your skull made that a terrible position to be in.", 
        "Same.  Even ADCC can be off putting if guys are playing for points. ", 
        "You don't like watching people wrestle at a high school level for forty five minutes to decide who wins the weight class? ", 
        "Did you watch the Mario Sperry superfight at ADCC 2015? Jee-zus....", 
        "Cyborg is actually not competing at EBI 6 anymore", 
        "Andr\u00e9 Galv\u00e3o is out as well.", 
        "Yup, two biggest names are out. It's a shame but it's still their best line-up ever. The last 5 events were great, especially the kids matches, somehow.", 
        "Kids matches can be very fun to watch. They are always going to worse at grappling than adults, from a technical stand-point, but kids can scramble and generate action like no other. \n\nKids have an incredibly high turn-over rate with their positions, meaning there is usually a lot of flow and contrast in their matches (instead of one guy simply attaining side-mount and then holding it at all costs). Kids also have such loose and mobile bodies, paired with a lack of strength, that the technique and scrambles gain a lot of energy.", 
        "The format is a lot of fun too.  Pride like crowds where they're silent in between sequences but cheer when appropriate.  Knowledgeable announcers and refs as well.  I've enjoyed all of it that I've watched.", 
        "I hope you like Schaun and Callen...they are part of the commentating team this time. Oh jeeeesus.", 
        "I think in this format they'll do their jobs appropriately so that they're selected to come back", 
        "I think they're doing the Onnit BJJ tourney.  ", 
        "mm that's a different comp - they're not commentating EBI", 
        "only problem i had with the last EBI i saw was the over the top fighter announcement like every 2 minutes. got exhausting and repetitive. ", 
        "For anyone in the BJJ community what happened to Metamorris? I hear stories of people not being paid and it doesnt seem to be going well.", 
        "Basically the last one(I think) they decided that a live audience was a horrible idea and made it a private event that could only be seen on ppv. They also didn't pay a bunch of people. Or only paid partial amounts. Not sure if the pay thing has been resolved. ", 
        "they also charged many subscriber's credit cards after they had cancelled and Ralek has been a douche and in denial for many months while it was happening. ", 
        "Too bad they don't have the Shutdown Artist that is Schaub.\n\nThe Schaub Shutdown at Metamoris is one of the best displays of Shutdownology the grappling world has ever seen.", 
        "I like how people hate on Scaub for this but both competitors embarrassed themselves equally.  Actually Cyborg definitely looked worse", 
        "Not engaging in grappling, during a grappling competition...\n\nSchaub was a complete putz and looked immeasurably worse.", 
        "He engaged multiple times.  I'm sorry but if your whole game is sitting on your ass, and asking someone to jump into your dominant position.  Then your position is obviously not that dominant, and your game looks weak.\n\nLet me ask you this, if you were a brown belt going against a world champion black belt, would you just jump into position the guy wants (and will submit you from pretty quick)? Well if so then you are an idiot, if not then you are just a hater", 
        "cyborg wanted to take him down actually but everytime schaub would back up to the edge of the mat so cyborg couldn't pursue without cracking schaubs head open on the floor.", 
        "So what's your gameplan then?  You could pull guard, or you could take him down.  One of those ends up with you in a *worse* position, and the other ends up with the position he was giving you for free in the first place.\n\nYour choices are to A) Engage, or B) Look like a fool.\n\nSchaub chose B.\n\nI could stall out a draw against basically anyone if I wanted to (and I'm a blue belt) given that the rules just let me run away whenever I want.  Schaub would have been penalized and DQ'd in a normal grappling comp. for failure to engage.", 
        "my brain shutdown during that match", 
        "I don't practice bjj I'm only a mma fan so forgive my ignorance. I know that Schaub didn't engage and backed out a lot. Why does he get shit for that and the other guy doesn't get shit for being passive. It's been a while since I've seen it but didn't abreau just lie down the whole time and wait for schaub in his guard. Why couldn't be get up put schaub in his back and submit him like that? ", 
        "In BJJ comps the top player would be penalised for stalling for not trying to pass guard. ", 
        "Unless there is a large gap in skill, if one wrestler doesn't want to engage nothing will happen. That's why collegiate and Olympic wrestling have rules requiring wrestlers to be aggressive or they'll award points to the opponent.", 
        "It's always funny when Eddie is talking about EBI on a fight companion and Brendan starts asking about it then Eddie slowly changes the topic. ", 
        "Yeah, Eddie doesn't want someone playing touchbutt at EBI.", 
        "Touch butt would be a step up honestly. Eddie doesn't want Schaub bopping his opponents head around like a bobble head  [like this](http://cdn3.sbnation.com/imported_assets/1651773/1.gif)", 
        "Why didn't cyborg take it to schaub? ", 
        "He tried. Schaub would just backstep all the way around the mat and keep distance. So Cyborg just sat down and let Schaub do whatever he wanted. Turns out all Schaub wanted to do was touch his forehead.", 
        "Abu Schaubi ", 
        "As long as Garry Tonon is in, i'm watching.", 
        "No Renato Laranja??", 
        "I heard he's the defending champ", 
        "Have Galvao and Cybrog pulled out?", 
        "yes", 
        "Man would love a Kron Tonon match in  EBI", 
        "Would be epic!", 
        "Cyborg and Galvao are out. Cyborg is doing the Abu Dhabi World Pro instead and Galvao said he couldn't get any nogi training partners due to everyone training for The Abu Dhabi World Pro ", 
        "Cyborg and Galvao already pulled out...", 
        "I love that overtime format. ", 
        "ya I am not a fan of the ride time as the final tie break. \nIMO that just worse than points. Someone holds on to the overtime but was just pure defense in regulation realizes OK my best bet is just ride time. I think there should be a judge based system for the final tie break. Eddie and the time keepers are already there anyway. its subjective but ride time is just lame.\n\nother than that everything is great about it! ", 
        "Grappling have this amazing possibility of one-night bracket championships. I don't know how it's not a popular thing yet.", 
        "Hopefully Cyborg can stay healthy.", 
        "He's already pulled out. ", 
        "I am goddamned stoked for this card.", 
        "Holy shit, where did they get $50,000 from??", 
        "Eddie said recently he doesn't make any money from these, he's just doing it out of passion.", 
        "This is pretty old, a lot of these guys dropped out and it's no longer in Mexico City. Galvao, cyborg are both out.", 
        "https://instagram.com/p/BC6U7hfPrmL/\n\nThe list of fighters still in.", 
        "\"Hitters\" in a grappling tourny ?!", 
        "How can I watch that?", 
        "On UFC Fight Pass.", 
        "UFC Fight Pass ya goof", 
        "aint nobody have time 4 dat", 
        "The only thing I'm not a fan of is that only the winner gets paid and something only getting paid for submission wins and they don't get paid when it goes into overtime. The reason Eddie gives is that its for the fans to create more action. I just don't like the idea of pros not getting paid anything but I guess thats the stage BJJ is stuck at because it doesn't generate much.", 
        "I'm sure they still get paid. They probably just get that extra bonus win money for that stuff. ", 
        "I know someone who competed in  EBI3. They do not get paid or even appearance fees. I was shocked too.", 
        "they are a start up promotion so they dont have a ton of money to give out already ... the money for the winner in regulation only is to push them to go for submissions and not try to get to ot and win that way. ", 
        "http://www.bjjee.com/featured/ebi-6-feat-galvao-cyborg-on-ufc-fight-pass-50k-cash-prize/\n\nI read on eddie's instagram or something before but this was the only source I could find now \n\n\"This is a big step for EBI, the fastest growing Jiu-Jitsu invitational, and this time they hit big with more than double the usual cash prize of 20,000$.\nIt will be the first time EBI offers an Absolute division. The winner takes all and could earn $50k. The tournament winner gets paid $12,500 for each submission in regulation and $0 for submissions in OT.\"\n\n", 
        "I think that means the winner gets $12,500 for submissions in regulation then if it's tied and it goes to OT the subs don't count toward earning money.\n\nSo like...each fighter probably gets paid a base amount. Probably not a ton since EBI is pretty small still. If they make it to the final then they get their normal pay plus $12.5k for each sub but only to the one who wins the final match. \n\nThat probably why it's winner take all. The two in the final might each get a couple subs which would normally mean they would each get $12.5k but since it's winner take all the winner gets all of the money they earned via subs and the loser gets none of those sub bonuses. ", 
        "Literally only the winner of the tournament has the chance of getting paid\n\nhttps://www.instagram.com/p/BCI1IWFvrnR/\n\nThe winner will have had 4 matches to win, each worth $12,500. You win each $12,500 by winning within regular time. If not you get paid $0 for that match. Technically if you win all 4 in OT then you get paid $0. \n\n", 
        "And they are having heavyweights compete Mexico City? Guess they like how well it worked for Cain.", 
        "it was moved from mexico back to la ", 
        "\"Then we will fight in the shade\"", 
        "What's that from?", 
        "[Great movie](http://i.imgur.com/G8AppgM.gifv)", 
        "300.", 
        "UFC 300 is like 10 years away dude. /s", 
        "It's actually from life: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dienekes", 
        "It's likely to be about as based on real life as my history papers in college would have been if no one could've fact checked them.", 
        "It far predates 300, that was my intended point. ", 
        "I know, I just wanted to point out that being a historian used to be a much sweeter job.", 
        "> Being informed by one of the men of Trachis that when the Barbarians discharged their arrows they obscured the light of the sun by the multitude of the arrows, so great was the number of their host, he was not dismayed by this, but making small account of the number of the Medes, he said that their guest from Trachis brought them very good news, for if the Medes obscured the light of the sun, the battle against them would be in the shade and not in the sun.\"\n\nThat's like the lamest possible way of telling that story.", 
        "the greeks may have invented pathos, but hollywood perfected it.", 
        "Fight night", 
        "Beat me to it.  Always used the Texas stadium for realistic lighting. ", 
        "That's fucking illegal\n\nDarkness was never my ally nor was I molded by it.", 
        "Darkness was never my old friend ya goof", 
        "That was great, I was watching an Arab stream too and had no idea wtf was going on lol.", 
        "\u0644, \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u062f\u0623\u0628\u0648\u0627 \u0634\u0648\u0627\u0637\u064a\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0635\u0628\u0629 \u0642\u062f. combination \u0644\u0628\u0644\u062c\u064a\u0643\u0627\u060c \u0639\u062f\u0645, \u0628\u0644 \u0628\u0641\u0631\u0636 \u0648\u0623\u0643\u062b\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0633\u0627\u062d\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0641\u064a, \u0642\u062f \u062d\u062f\u0649 \u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644 \u062a\u0633\u0645\u0651\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0642\u060c. \u0623\u0633\u0631 \u0628\u0645\u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0644\u0646\u062f\u064a \u0644\u0645, \u0628\u0640 \u0642\u0627\u0645\u062a \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0644\u064a\u0627striking\u060c \u0644\u0645\u0651, \u0645\u0642\u0627\u0648\u0645\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0651\u063a\u0645 \u0623\u062e\u0630 \u0645\u0627.\n", 
        "\u0627\u0644\u0634\u0631\u0642\u060c. \u0623\u0633\u0631 \u0628\u0645\u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0644\u0646\u062f\u064a allahu armbar \u0644\u0645\u0651, \u0645\u0642\u0627\u0648\u0645\u0629 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0631\u0651\u063a\u0645 \u0623\u062e\u0630 \u0645\u0627 ground and pound \u0644, \u0647\u0630\u0627 \u062f\u0623\u0628\u0648\u0627 \u0634\u0648\u0627\u0637\u064a\u0621 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0635\u0628\u0629 \u0642\u062f. \n", 
        ">allahu armbar\n\nhahaha", 
        ">highlighting the joke\n\nhahaha", 
        ">hahaha\n\n>hahaha", 
        "I actually like that more. If the UFC did this on purpose, and blacked out everything but the fighters in the Octagon I would like it. It would be almost like those 2 fighters are the only ones there, and nothing else matters.", 
        "They should put UV paint on the fighters and have a UV spotlight so the fighters glow in the dark.", 
        "That kinda ruins the primal feeling I was going for. There would be enough light in the ring for them to see each other, and for people to see, but that would be about it.", 
        "I feel like one of them has an advantage.", 
        "That's dangerous, ya goofs.", 
        "Actually they don't seem to be fighting at all, seem to be patiently waiting for the lights to go on.", 
        "I know, they're so still you can barely even tell where the gif loops", 
        "New definition of dark fights", 
        "At least they didn't blow up and rain glass down into the ring like at that axs event awhile ago.", 
        "GSP's dark place.", 
        "\"darkness is my ally\"\n\nEDIT:Downvote for a Zatoichi reference? You guys suck.", 
        "Rember before big country vs struve the whole arenas blacked out, it was a fight night and i believe they went to commercial untill they sorted it out.", 
        "That's weird, I remember that fight but not the light problems.", 
        "It was durring their walk outs i beleive not in the fight", 
        "What a sleeper card smh", 
        "Reminds me of that fight in the Shamo manga.", 
        "The commentator sounds like Tommy toe hold doing his joe rogan impression", 
        "RIP Frankie Edgar\n1981-2016", 
        "My guess is they're saving Frankie v. Conor for the MSG card when New York allows MMA.  Ariel mentioned that recently also and I think he got it right on the button.\n\nIreland vs. Italy at MSG in New York City.\n\nProfit maximization is another no-consequence Diaz-McGregor cash-in fight, and then hope there's enough left of Conor to headline the first New York card.\n", 
        "\"Conor wouldn't hold up the division\", they said.", 
        "Yup. He's going to have a heart attack, and I can't blame him. I expected Conor to defend against him and then go up to rematch with Nate, but they'll probably have him against Aldo on the same card and no matter what Conor will defend against the winner", 
        "McGregor is the one in real danger... from the deadly banter Frankie's manager, coach and barber are about to unleash on twitter.", 
        "Decision making at the UFC. 99.9% short term cash.\nFuck:\n\nanything to do legacy\n\nwhat you promised fighters in terms of fights\n\nReal fans who could careless about this spectacle and who got you here\n\n\n", 
        "Because he's gonna kill himself?", 
        "Via TKO(Aneurysm) Rd N/A Time N/A", 
        "If you fight Nate, you must Vacate.", 
        "Luke Thomas must be shitting a brick somewhere. Waiting for the murder spree from Frankie any day now.", 
        "Yeah, does anyone know if he has made a response to this?", 
        "I was like \"Frankie's only 25!???\"...Then I learned math...and aging...", 
        "I doubt it. On some podcast, I heard Conors camp turned it down. ", 
        "If Conor loses he'll be a full time 145er again and he'll rattle out 3 title defenses in a year.", 
        "Bring the downvotes. I've said it before and I'll say it again. Conor/UFC is ducking Frankie. There isn't a single worse stylistic match up on the roster at 145 or 155 for Conor.\n\nGreat wrestling and the best transitions in the game with some of the best boxing, speed and stamina for 10 rounds at least, and unmatched durability. There are people like Khabib and Mendes but their stand up leaves much to be desired as well as their stamina. Frankie would put him on his back and grind him out with gnp round after round until Conor completely wilts. There is a reason the UFC has kept Frankie on the shelf for the better part of 3 years. Its an incredibly shame to. Hes getting older and will begin to lose a step and he is the only active fighter that had/has a real chance at 3 belts. ", 
        "Nah he's ducking RDA. Nah he's ducking Mendes. Nah... \n\nHe's fighting the guy that has already kicked his motherfucking ass on 11 days notice, that's the most dangerous matchup that we know of FOR SURE currently since we've already seen what Nate can do standing and with him on the ground. You can't be certain how a Frankie fight would go.", 
        "Conor has much more to lose fighting Frankie than Nate.", 
        "Edit: Also besides the point... who is saying hes ducking RDA? RDA isn't even in the weight class Conor is the Champion of. Follow Frankies career. Not sure how to unless you were there but find old forums or something. He has been held up by the UFC for 3 years because they didn't want him killing contenders. Conor already passed on him at 189 when he accepted the fight and instead opted for Mendes. Conor never talked shit on Frankie because he didn't want to actually bring interest into them fighting. Frankie actually fought at 155lbs against people 20+ lbs heavier than him and became champion. Prime Frankie would fuck Conor up (Of today. Maybe in 5 more years Conor will be much improved) and Conor knows, UFC knows, and above all Eric Silva knows. They will wait until Frankie ages and loses a step before ever making that match up. \n\nRDA wasn't as dangerous of a match up as it seems though. I honestly don't believe RDA would have been able to get Conor to the mat. RDA is not a good wrestler and his transitions are terrible. You know hes going for a takedown from a mile away. Somehow after this fight was booked everyone jumped on the RDA is the toughest opponent yet train and I'm sitting here like WTF?!?. His gameplan was likely to get Conor to the fence then try to get him down which I highly doubt he would have been able to do. \n\nRDA was a good fight to give the impression that Conor is fighting a well rounded opponent and silence the naysayers. I honestly thought Conor was going to beat RDA while I thought Frankie would crush him. Now after Conor lost to Diaz I'm not so sure.  \n", 
        "He's fighting a guy that he still gets to keep his belt if he loses to.  I also think Frankie is a tougher matchup for him than Nate.", 
        "No matter who he fights, someone will claim he's ducking someone.", 
        "Not really. If he fights Frankie then he will have fought the best guys in his weight class. You might see a couple of idiots claiming that he's ducking RDA, but we know that is not true. They were scheduled to fight and the cancellation had nothing to do with Conor.\n\nThe Frankie fight is the only legitimate case where you could argue the UFC/Conor don't want the fight.", 
        "All I'm saying is that someone's always shitting on Conor.\n\nI'm pretty sure he just wants to immediately beat the guy who beat him because he thinks he can prove that it was a fluke.\n\nWhether that's the case or not will have to be seen, but that seems like a Conor way of thinking.", 
        "I'm not sure he is ducking as much as it is the UFC protecting him.  However, I am pretty sure a lot less people would give him shit for ducking if he fought the guy he avoided talking about on the way up, fought Mendes instead of at 189, and who was told he got whatever he wanted the day before Conor won the title.\n\nA few people might say he is ducking others (mainly because they are Conor haters,) but it would be a much smaller amount.", 
        "Three belts? Lightweight, featherweight, and what is the third?", 
        "I don't get it. Why are they giving a rematch when out of shape diaz just beat mcgregor. Is this at 155? Do they think if they both weigh in at 155 conor will have a better chance? He's the fucking 145 pound champ, there are legit contenders at 145 waiting for that call. ", 
        "The money would be the obvious angle. You can probably pull McGregor's fanbase right back for a revenge fight.", 
        "That sound you heard was his head exploding upon the announcement of this news. Seriously WTF, Dana & Co. ", 
        "This is BS. Feel really bad for Frankie.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "If you worked your ass off for something as much as Frankie has, you would understand.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "that and beating the top guys.. and being promised a title shot", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "> post-Mcgregor Chad Mendes\n\nlmao\n\nso when conor beat him when he had no notice/camp, it was good enough for a belt and shot at aldo\n\nbut after conor beat him, hes \"post conor chad\". [good stuff](http://www.bjpenn.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/Screen-Shot-2015-09-30-at-12.04.10-PM1.png)\n\nedgars history speaks for itself. and hes currently on a 5 fight win streak with 3 of them being finishes\n\nhe was also promised a title shot after his last finish, but we'll ignore that\n\n\n\n", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "> He got KO'd by Mcgregor\n\nno he didnt\n\n", 
        "Hard work = getting wins.", 
        "You guys should wait for the card is official before you start complaining. You have no idea why they're making this fight (injuries, etc). Or if they're even going to actually make it.\n\nThe UFC is great at making competitive and exciting fights. People seem like they always need something to complain about.\n", 
        "He's had 3 title shots, at two weight classes, and he got the call for Conor and was hurt.\n\nAnd one of those title shots was an immediate rematch in a fight he lost.\n\nI'm not saying I don't feel like he hasn't had some bad luck, but he hasn't capitalized very much on the luck he's had.\n\n", 
        "It wasn't against Conor though. Fight styles make fights.", 
        "I know I'm just saying this meme where he never gets his shot or whatever isn't really based in reality.\n\nHe's had shots maybe not all he wanted or all his fans wanted but it's not like he hasn't had them.\n", 
        "No, but he is a super good match up against Conor.", 
        "He's the next one in line. Conor Has never defended his UFC belt. As champion he has to defend that belt at one point.", 
        "All this \"have to\" stuff is just something you made up in your head.\n\nThis is a private business.  They don't have to do anything.  If that pisses you off you're a private citizen and don't have to watch.\n\nThey could have Conor McGregor fighting a fan at UFC200.  Or McGregor vs. a Kangaroo.\n\nThere's no \"holy rules\" on stone tablets or anything.  That's just tradition.\n", 
        "Yeah, name one champ that can have non-title fights when ever he wants. It's his duty to prove that he is the best of that division.", 
        "Don't feel bad... Conor (logically) has to vacate the belt now, and Edgar is first in line, obviously.\n\nBut this is Zuffa and Dana White, so who fucking knows?", 
        "Feels bad that Frankie doesn't get the big pay day by fighting Conor and PPV points. ", 
        "No he doesn't lol. It's only July and he got his belt in December, if he defended his belt once this year it would be about on par with alot of the other Champs.", 
        "but frankie wants to fight conor. he wants to prove to himself and the world that he is the best 145r. if conor vacates then he doesnt get that chance and it understandably leaves a sour taste in his mouth, just like it will for many fans\n\nconor will go on about clearing a whole division and nothing left there for him, when looking at his record, especially the guys who had to take fights against him with next to no camps, its an absurd claim", 
        "It's not Conors fault he had 6 people drop out last minute, most people in his position wouldn't take those fights.", 
        ">  most people in his position wouldn't take those fights.\n\nwhat position, a relatively unknown up and comer that showed promise, talked a bunch of silly shit, brought a huge crowd of followers willing to spend money and got to hand pick his replacement opponents when someone pulled out?\n\n\n\nmatches were picked based on his style, other than chad, who had a couple days to prepare. \n\n no one else gets that treatment. i dont hate the guy, but reality is reality, he was fast tracked to a title shot. no ones taking away from the counter shot he landed on aldo, but the rest of it is kind of hard to ignore", 
        "He was offered fighting Conor and he turned it down. Chance is done.", 
        "Conor is full of shit, always has been. He didn't even come close to clearing out 145lbs. He beat some good guys, and a few old cans. That's hardly clearing out a division. His popularity far surpasses what he has actually done. ", 
        ">  he wants to prove to himself and the world that he is the best 145r.\n\nhe already lost against Aldo. He also needs to beat Aldo to prove that", 
        "Well, Conor can always come back down in the future if he feels the need.  But you can't fight two times out of your weight-class (that you killed yourself to make) and reasonably expect to not vacate.\n\nAgain, this is Zuffa, so really what matters is what makes the most money, and nothing else.  It's just worth noting.", 
        "The belts are an arbitrary fight hype tool. At the eod, money fights are all that matters to ZUFFA and the athletes.", 
        "> Again, this is Zuffa, so really what matters is what makes the most money, and nothing else.\n\nseems like thats the deal these days\n\n", 
        "if i were frankie i would be mailing dana a bag of my own shit everyday until i got my title shot", 
        "Or a bag of gummy dicks every day. lol", 
        "whiskey soaked gummy dicks?", 
        "Second time reading about gummy dicks toiday, after years of not knowing them at all", 
        "I think they are awesome cheap gifts for friends and family members.", 
        "thats a good one and probably not illegal.", 
        "Glitter in the mail? Wasn't that a thing? ", 
        "and the guy who made it sold is for 100k or something", 
        "http://dicksbymail.com/", 
        "I am so happy this is a thing.", 
        "Aldo vs Edgar as co-main for the featherweight belt hopefully.", 
        "This would make sense, and Conor wouldn't have to take an L to leave the FW division. ", 
        "Yeah, the rematch, makes Conor look scared... not of the opponent, he's game after all, but of that weight cut.  Vacate already.", 
        "Should be interim title bout if connor aint gonna fight in the featherweight division!", 
        "Barring injury, Conor has until December to defend it really.  He could theoretically fight 4x per year, so he could actually have another fight after this one before really being forced to defend it.  They'll make all kinds of exceptions for you if your popularity transcends that of the typical champion.", 
        "Connor needs to defend the FW and stop fucking around in other weight classes in the meantime. He got finished by a late notice #5 LW at WW. Stick to the FW division", 
        "This is what I want ", 
        "At this point of Aldo's career, he needs to move up to 155lbs.", 
        "Interim belt maybe?  Not totally fair to Edgar and Aldo but I don't see the UFC stripping Conor's belt.", 
        "This is the only way I'd be happy with a McGregor-Diaz rematch.", 
        "That could be great. It would be tough for Conor or the UFC to justify him not defending his belt when there's 2 great contenders ready. ", 
        "From a promotional point of view, Nate/Conor makes way more sense. The lead up to the fight should be epic.\n\n\n\nIt's not hard to justify him not defending the title right now. It's not like Frankie or Aldo are doing anything besides bitching to get their shot. I haven't once seen them say they would take a title eliminator fight against each other. Aldo won't promote a fight and got knocked out in 13 seconds, he needs a win for a rematch. He also ran the division for years, so it makes sense that Frankie has to go through him to get a title shot. ", 
        "Justify to whom... fans? They do what makes sense for their business. This  fight is bigger from financial standpoint. No surprises there. Good for Nate.", 
        "You men good for Mcgregor.  Nate already won.", 
        "in terms of $.", 
        "Guys will go over a year without defending their belt and no one says shit, Conor goes 6 months without defending it and people suddenly throw a tantrum", 
        "Ye because hes fit to fight and the rest weren't. I can look past the LW  title fight but a second fight against Diaz before conor defends his title is taking the piss in a major way. ", 
        "And who fights him, the guy who's lost his last 3 title fights or the guy who he KO'd in 13 secs", 
        "Frankie... moron. Do you watch MMA?", 
        "No shit sherlock", 
        "Because he is still fighting. Being injured is one thing. Holding a belt and fighting out of your weight class is different imo. Sure have a super fight but when you lose, go back and def your tittle or vacate. ", 
        "He's allowed to fight outside his weightclass because UFC knows he'll fight 2-3 months after which i can't think of many fighters who would fight so soon after. ", 
        "That's all well and good but when was his last fight at 145? December. 4 months ago. If he doesn't defend at 200 then his next defense has to be September or later so we come back to almost an year of not defending a tittle. That's why I think if he doesn't defend at 200 he needs to vacate it. ", 
        "It's his belt and the UFC can do whatever the fuck they want. They don't have to justify shit. ", 
        "I don't think it's unjustifiable. Conor just has a higher fight rate. As long as he defends the fw belt twice a year, he should get to keep it.", 
        "That 45 cut is probably really really hard for him", 
        "If he doesn't defend it next he should definitely vacate it. ", 
        "He's basically done it his whole career. He can at least do it one more time to defend the fucking title or fight Edgar. ", 
        ">probably\n\nThere's photographic proof.", 
        "well his superfans claim his 168 weigh in weight was actually his walk around weight. they also acknowledge the fact that he clearly bulked up 10+ pounds. so in their own words he was only cutting like 10 pounds to hit 145 prior, which is nothing! he could make 135 probably. ", 
        "there is no way he makes 135, he is a huge 5''9 and fights at 145 and hendricks is a huge 5\"9 and barely makes 170", 
        "read my post again\n\ni was joking about him making 135", 
        "He probably put on 5~6lbs. Cutting 17lbs isn't a joke, and it effects some people more than others.", 
        "> He probably put on 5~6lbs\n\nlol ok\n\nso his own camp claiming he was 177 the week before the diaz fight is a lie? he cut weight for the diaz fight, sorry man. look at him at press events the week before, then at the weigh in at 168, he clearly cut some weight.\n\nfor fucks sake some of you guys are delusional. i hope youre 13-15 years old and have his poster on your wall or it doesnt make any sense\n\n[17 pound weight cut](http://app-dev.craziestsportsfights.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/before-after-conor.jpg) you dont even need to see his body, the face says it all. the guy is cutting ridiculous amounts of weight, thats why his coach and  teammates publicly say theyre worried about his health cutting to 145.\n", 
        "Seriously. I think he'd actually have to lose muscle to make it. ", 
        "100 percent, for sure I think people would be surprised. He's packing a HUGE piece as well, big dick bandit. He's a MOTHERfucker though, for sure.", 
        "Lol no he isnt...\n\nIt's a well known sterotype that Irishman have a small penis.", 
        "I think you'd be surprised, 100 percent for sure bro", 
        "Lol what", 
        "His penis", 
        "Yeah, got that ", 
        "That's my theory too - McGregor had a long talk with his nutritionist and said fuck it, I can't make 145. But the Nate Diaz rematch is bullshit. McGregor vs Alvarez  , Nate either waits for a title shot or fights the Ferguson Khabib winner. McGregors performance doesn't merit a do-over.", 
        "I'm just curious to see it. But in Conor's defense what he did was somewhat experimental so a redo isn't so bad. ", 
        "I feel like this is exactly what Nate wants. He's said he wants the biggest money fight and this is definitely it, and he doesn't have to take any of Nick's fights either.", 
        "It's def bullshit at ww considering whomever wins likely wants a shot at the lw belt", 
        "This might sound odd but I kind of think Nate should get to call whether this fight happens or not, not McG. At the end of the day Nate won the last one, so has the power here. Truthfully I just want to see Nate get paid again, and fighting Conor will surely do that.\n\nMan, imagine if Nate beats him again. lol ", 
        "Then Luke Rockhold would have to dethrone him, historically speaking", 
        "Imagine! It would be a disaster for McG to lose again and it's a very likely outcome. It would make 200 a HUGE ticket but I'd rather see Connor and Nate both develop their respective careers before clashing again.", 
        "You would think that... but in reality money calls who would fight who. Really too nate stands to make more money from fighting Conor again then fighting dos anjos.", 
        "No need to imagine. Diaz looked terrible and still beat conor. Wait till he actually can train and get some cardio and some sparring in. It won't even be close. McGregor will lose again even worse than the first time", 
        "Nate said last week, I don't care about no belts I want the money fights....he clearly wants this too.", 
        "I dont think that is too hard to imagine ", 
        "Well that is standard, I don't think anyone ever has to fight someone in the UFC if they want to.", 
        "when not if", 
        "nate does get to call who hes going to fight. nobody can force you to sign a contract. but the UFC is probably making him a ridiculous offer if he is accepting this. ", 
        "Well I don't think it has to be ridiculous for Nate to accept. Does Nate even want RDA? He thinks his brother should get Lawler so what else is out there for him? This is the best possible scenario for Nate. ", 
        "Yup. Diaz must be smiling ear to ear - full camp - full hype train - and if he loses - just cry foul treatment and campaign for a rematch. McG it seems can't do 45 and RDA , Alvarez , kabib are all scarier prospects than Diaz . I say fuck it. Cheers Dana - the naughty kid in me is excited at the thought of a rematch ", 
        "> McGregors performance doesn't merit a do-over.\n\ni agree. that was a fun fight to watch but it wasn't one of those fights where you would love to see what happens a second time like Lawler vs MacDonald.", 
        "I mean, Conor arguably won the first round. He busted Nate open with clean shots and hardly had a scratch on him going into the second. Then Nate found his range and ended it, but I don't think there's anything wrong with a rematch. I'd say he's more deserving, than say Aldo, who did absolutely nothing vs Conor but get slept and yet people were/are still calling for that to happen.", 
        "The only people that are calling for the rematch are Conor fans who can't believe that the \"unbeatable guy who can knock out anyone\" completely failed at knocking Nate out. then proceeded to get rocked my his own signature punch and ended up getting choked out because he couldn't stand and fight anymore. ", 
        "I don't think any rematches are truly warranted. Aldo vs McGreggor 2 would be bullshit, Cain vs Werdum 2 is bullshit, Hendricks vs Anyone 2-3-4-5 are bullshit.\n\nConor got his shit pushed in like a prison wife, good, that's over, move the fuck on people. There's plenty of Talent in the UFC, and we know 145 is a terrible cut for Conor, 155 is probably where he belongs.", 
        "That's exactly how I feel. It was fun the first time, but I have no doubt in the outcome of a second fight ", 
        "Yeah so he needs to vacate it. If his next fight is not at 145 he has to vacate imo. You can't be the champ at 145 and have two fights back to back that are not at 145, when people are ready and waiting for you. (the short notice from RDA dropping doesn't count. People are still ready just not on 10 days) ", 
        "> If his next fight is not at 145 he has to vacate imo.\n\n100% But his next fight still can't be a rematch against a guy who beat him up on 11 days notice.", 
        "I'm ok with the vacating part, but why not Nate again? I want this fight bad, revenge will be so sweet!", 
        "I want this fight again because that means the Diaz brothers are gonna be ever richer!  They deserve the hell out of it.", 
        "Exactly! ", 
        "I'm sure he vacates it if he doesn't defend it at UFC 200.", 
        "if i am not mistaken McG made a big deal about he could hold the 145 and 155 title and it wouldn't tie up the belts. now he the 145 is on hold while he fights 155 fights that really don't mean anything. if he is going to move up he should move up and let 145 go.", 
        "He's had the belt for 3 months lol. He's not tied up the belt anymore than most of the other Champs. You guys are just ridiculous sometimes.", 
        "It isn't a matter of time it is a matter of action. If he were unable to fight it would be rediculous to say he was holding anything up. The thing is he isn't out of the game so he should defend his belt. If he can make a fight at any weight then he is neglecting the weight class that he is a title holder in. There are legitimate fights that he could make at 145 that would be meaningful. McG fighting Diaz again doesn't do anything. It gives him an opportunity to avenge a loss but at Frankie's expense. ", 
        "Yes it does do something, if McGregor loses twice it pretty much says he needs a good long break from 155, if he wins then it says maybe it's time for him to move up and stay up.\n\nYour opinions are kind of out there, since he doesn't train like an idiot and injure himself he shouldn't be allowed to fight a couple times out of his weight class?\n\nDiaz wants the payday, McGregor wants the revenge, the fans want to see McGregor no matter what. Theres no reason not to do this fight really. Aldo and Frankie need to quit crying and fight each other to pick who the next contender should be instead of the division sitting around waiting for Conor. He's only had the belt for like 3 fucking months, get your shit together 145.", 
        "I'm a McGregor guy, and I want this fight but everyone in his camp except him has said 145 is never happening again. I think he should vacate the belt whipp Nate's ass, then RDA and maybe then go back down. I personally would like to see him stay at 155, he looks unhealthy at 145.", 
        "155 fights at ww.. ", 
        "Wtf you talking about?", 
        "The fight isn't at 155. It's at welterweight , 170.\n\nThat's wtf he's talking about.\n\nThink Mcfly, think.", 
        "Wtf, who thought that was a good idea??", 
        "Um, you? Me? Everyone? Shit like this happened a lot and many people were ok with it because it was exciting. Whenever someone argued that there are others at the head of the queue who deserved to fight X or Y, everyone said \"yeah but this is a business, so this makes sense financially\". Now it's coming back to bite MMA fans on the ass, because they are the ones who cheered for shit like this.", 
        "https://media.giphy.com/media/12XMGIWtrHBl5e/giphy.gif", 
        "the 1.4-.1.5 million buys?", 
        "It is a good idea. Because if conor beats Nate in the rematch he now has a strong case for the title fi gh t against RDA. It makes sense ", 
        "Me. I'd watch them fight every week if possible!\n\nSeriously though. I'm not sure what else they could do to make 200 a big event.", 
        "Thanks casual fans!! Fuckin ruin everything..until the next thing that's popular that you'll like for 5 minutes.\n\nHonestly this is the type of shit that will make me NOT buy UFC 200..I want to see fresh fights, fresh match ups, I'm fuckin sick of this. /rant", 
        "Honestly I think the UFC just doesn't have that many big fights they can put on at 200, and while Conor vs Frankie is a great fight, we all know a Conor vs Nate rematch will sell more.\n\nI think UFC shot themselves in the foot by putting on so many big PPVs leading up to 200: Jones vs Cormier, Rockhold vs Weidman, etc... Also Ronda won't be ready and Holm recently lost. Now they don't have a lot of talent to work with to put on a big card for 200.", 
        "I don't get the point.  The fight had no title contention, was by no means in question about the result.  It seems Conor just doesn't want to have to defend his belt so is taking things that prolong his shitty reign.", 
        "Probably Conor. Let's be honest if he thinks he can win with a properly tuned camp and asks for the fight what's Dana gonna say?", 
        "I really, really, really want Nate to give this piece of shit a proper brain damage this time, this pissed me off so bad.", 
        "I like it. Other than the fact that it'll be at 170. Which is baffling.  ", 
        "Well to be fair, Dana wanted the Kimbo vs Butterbean claw hammer brawl, but Butterbean had a heart attack. ", 
        "The UFC really don't want anything to do with Nate getting a title shot", 
        "its the biggest money fight bigger than aldo frankie and rda", 
        "I'm hoping against hope that this is an early April Fool's prank.  Nothing about this fight makes sense.", 
        "I am sure Mccregor wanted this bad, then UFC said well we can rebuild some of your image if you defeat the only guy to beat you in UFC and act like first defeat was just cause of 170 weight.", 
        "The people in charge of making the UFC money ", 
        "209 Bitch. That's who! Personally as a huge Diaz mark I'm loving the chance to see hom break down McGregor for a second time.", 
        "Probably the same dumbshit that wanted Lawler vs. Hendricks 3.  \n\nToo bad for McGregor though, no one's even gonna care about his FW belt when he loses to Nate again.\n\nAldo must want to put his fist through Dana's face right now after he continues to give every champion in the UFC immediate rematches except the guy who was the most dominant of all the champions.  ", 
        "If they fight at 155 I'm all for it ", 
        "Saving Frankie for MSG is November? ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Which also shouldn't happen.  Should be Meisha vs Nunes and Ronda vs Holm.  Winner of the 2nd fights winner of the first.", 
        "MSG isn't gonna happen.", 
        "MSG is never going to happen. I've lived in ny my entire life and been let down too many times to have any hope left.", 
        "WTF\n\nWHY DOESN'T CONOR FUCKING DEFEND HIS BELT?!?!\n\nConor DOES control the UFC. He gets what EVER he wants.\n\nEdit: If the UFC WANTS to bring in more PPV buys they HAVE to put Conor against Aldo or Frankie. This is unproductive from a marketing view point, I can not name one person other than Conor wanting this fight. \n\nEdir#2: Even Pettis vs Conor would make more sense. Conor vs former LW champ.\n\nEdit#3: Frankie's the next one in line for a shot at the belt, Conor should defend his UFC belt. After he defends his belt he can think of a Nate rematch. As champion he has to defend that belt at one point.\n\n\nThis is a dickbutt at its best.", 
        "> This is unproductive from a marketing view point, I can not name one person other than Conor wanting this fight.\n\nNate - Conor 2 sells better than any other fight they can make. It's not great for hardcore fans but the big money is when you cn attract the casuals, which is what this does better than anything else available. ", 
        "Coming from a McGregor fan who is inherently biased, I'm actually into this rematch. It's what Conor symbolizes that sells this fight. The self-belief and aura he has. Even if it's deceptive. I want to see Conor tackle this again and win because it's a great story (if he wins anyway). I understand some people don't like Conor for his antics and don't see the appeal in his character but for me, I want to see him do well (and most importantly, people who aren't super deep into MMA do). It's also a case of if he does well, the UFC do well. I'm very into this fight personally. Does he deserve it? Not really... that doesn't mean I don't really want to see it again. The media will love this fight... the media will love the story even more if Conor manages to pull off the upset. ", 
        " Frankie's the next one in line for a shot at the belt, Conor should defend his UFC belt. After he defends his belt he can think of a Nate rematch. As champion he has to defend that belt at one point.\n\nThat would be logical. IMO", 
        "I agree for sure.... But if he beats Frankie... he still lost to Nate and doesn't have that same aura.... the win would only mean so much. If he can pull off the win against Nate, his stock will rise higher than it's ever been by far. The mainstream loves these kinds of stories. \n\nIt's all business at the end of the day. It's logical to business. I absolutely get what you're saying and agree on some level though.", 
        "I would be excited for that fight. I am not a fan of instant rematches.", 
        "As a casual MMA fan and big Conor fan, I can say I want this fight. And the majority of my friends are pumped for it as well. It will make a ton of money. This is not unproductive from a marketing standpoint in the least. ", 
        "That's good some fans are excited for it.", 
        "I bet he can't make 145 now.", 
        "He walks around 165 when he's fighting FWs.", 
        "For the Mendes fight at least he was at 170, I remember from the embedded.", 
        "this sucks big time, but i think even UFC wouldnt mind the boatloads of money they would make with this rematch. You know they would market the shit of this match through press conferences ,world tours and all  that crap ", 
        "I woundn't want to watch it.  That would not be a fight I would like to see.", 
        "yeap agreed it sucks and shouldnt be happening, but don tell me you would not watch it, cause i know i would, ufc knows you would.  conor has no business fighting nate again so soon . But at the end of the day , it all comes down to money . ", 
        "Yeah lets see who else is on that card. Nate vs Conor rematch won't be exciting for me though.", 
        "I agree with you..on top of that I find it weird that the main event for such a big milestone ppv isn't for a title. If anything I was expecting 3 title fights or more superfights with fighters moving up a weight class.", 
        "Floyd controls boxing, money talks and Conor brings in big money. ", 
        "He probably has trouble making 145, and also conors in this for the money. The diaz fight was the highest selling ufc ppv of all time so the rematch will be huge. Plus conor legit thinks he could have won that fight and probably wants to show everyone he can with an immediate rematch.", 
        "Yes, this is what Conor wants. Problem is, it's not what he deserves. ", 
        "Nate's the fight Conor needs, but not the one he deserves right now.", 
        "FFS, Aldo deserves a rematch with Conor more than Conor deserves Nate.  Aldo got caught with one good punch.  Conor got spanked, he was beaten both on the feet and the ground and got choked out. ", 
        "He's going to have an even harder time making 145 now that he's bulked up for three months. They need to vacate that belt", 
        "If he has trouble making 145 he should retire the belt. ", 
        "Exactly. I'm sick of that excuse. If people said that about any other champion everyone would be like wtf???", 
        "He just won the title a few months ago. He fights at a ridiculous pace. Some champs fight once a year.  Some of the fighters considered the best of all time fought once a year. Calm down. ", 
        "If he fights again in October/November(MSG) and defends it he would be back on pace like any other champ - obviously with the conditions that he wins that fight and gets out healthy, some big if's though.", 
        "Seriously. Aldo what held out the belt for a year? Connor will have fough 3 times in the last 7/8 months and one of those was at FW. He could fight for the FW title in 9/10 months which would still be more often than Aldo did", 
        "Are you trying to imply that the UFC doesn't want to print money with that fight.", 
        "You/they say \"print money\", I say I'll catch it on here and go do something better with my night than watch the fight.", 
        "Thanks for the blog post.", 
        "I don't know anyone excited for this fight.", 
        "Im more excited this time around", 
        "I'm excited for it :P But then again I'd be excited for any Conor fight. ", 
        "That's awesome that you are excited. I would've liked to watch this after Conor fought Frankie though.", 
        "This is an extremely exciting fight, people can have there reasons to question it and Frankie gets shafted again but no doubt everyone will tune in.", 
        "im excited to watch Conor lose even worse", 
        "I'm excited for this fight.\n\nIt's a guaranteed slugfest, and it will be interesting to see how well Conor manages to adapt his gameplan after his first UFC loss.\n\nSeeing him starch featherweights with his superior reach and power isn't that interesting. Seeing him struggle against a warrior like Nate will make for a great fight.", 
        "sorry but i think regular fans like us might not be that excited and look at this as injustice, but 100% a casual once in a year fan would eat this shit up . ", 
        "Their analytics people know millions.", 
        "It didn't seem like a lot of people were that excited for McGregor/Nate the first time around, and it did OK on the PPV buys.", 
        "Yeah, I would EVEN prefer RDA vs Conor. Even if Conor doesn't deserve a match with RDA after losing to Nate.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Then they would watch any fight with Conor. Edgar is getting FUCKED here.", 
        "I'm pretty excited for it and I'm no casual. But go ahead and make retarded asumptions just because you're mad about it. ", 
        "Why the hell wouldn't I be excited for this fight? Granted I'd rather see him defending his title (maybe he'll forfeit it) but that doesn't change my excitement levels for this fight.", 
        "Thousands of Conor casuals will be desperate to see their idol avenge his loss. Nate will wash him again though, no question.", 
        "You must be talking to a small group of people because I know a lot people who want to see this", 
        "I wanted to see this, but after he fought Frankie.", 
        "I would be excited and I know a lot of people who would be excited for it lol", 
        "Seriously, I think people are being disingenuous by suggesting this fight won't sell. Would I rather see Conor fight Frankie? Yes. Do I think this is a dumb, shortsighted rematch? Yes. Am I going to be hyped for this fight regardless? Absolutely.", 
        "The Conor McGregor hype after the Aldo fight went up ten fold. UFC196 was the biggest selling event of all time for the UFC. It makes 'business' sense for this fight to happen because it can easily be sold on the fact McGregor gassed because he put on weight and didn't have time to work on cardio for the new weight class. It doesn't make 'UFC' sense for this fight to happen though and casuals and me alike don't really care about title fights lol - I care about the individuals fighting in a 5 round fight.", 
        "> It doesn't make 'UFC' sense for this fight to happen though\n\nThis is the money fight, the UFC will break records with this. We may not like it but the casuals are responsible for the big PPV sales, not the hardcore fans. ", 
        "This is the truth, although I've been watching this sport for 15 years and I think I will be more excited to see this fight than him against Frankie. The first fight was amazing in fairness.", 
        "exactly my feelings, this will guaranteed sell more than any other fight conor could have had  ", 
        "> If the UFC WANTS to bring in more PPV buys they HAVE to put Conor against Aldo or Frankie. This is unproductive from a marketing view point, I can not name one person other than Conor wanting this fight.\n\nOn the contrary, I think Conor vs Diaz II brings in more money than any other possible matchup for him. A:, all the casuals who tuned in for the last fight now know who Nate is and B:, we get more entertaining shit talking from both guys.", 
        "Yeah I can see it selling because of new MMA fans. Just saddens me that Frankie hasn't had a chance at the belt yet.", 
        "> Just saddens me that Frankie hasn't had a chance at the belt yet.\n\nFrankie has had loads of title shots. Let him fight Aldo. ", 
        "I don't agree with your point B. The shit talking is gonna feel forced now that they already fought.", 
        "True, doesn't mean it can't be entertaining though.", 
        "This 100%. MMA fans (most of this sub) might not like it as much but the mainstream will because they don't know the details and probably don't even know who Frankie Edgar is. Look at Justin Beibers Instagram posts for example after Connor lost...that will give you an idea of the knowledge most people have about MMA, and the only reason they are watching is because Connor.\n\nThe UFC has always been trying to bridge that huge gap between people who are fans and will always watch - the general public to compete with other sports...with Connor they have a opportunity to do that.", 
        "Because it's two stars fighting each other now. Not just one. McGregor sprinkles his opponents with money when he wins,but when they burst the pinata they get money and celebrity.", 
        "Yeah i wouldn't pay to watch aldo or frankie. If I have nothing better to do I'd stream it.   But the Diaz fight built a lot of interest in friends and coworkers that otherwise never watch and I guarantee we will all watch it togeather", 
        "This man is correct. This is the big money fight. This is the fight that brings in new fans. There is no fight in any division right now that could be bigger. ", 
        "I am glad I didn't have to go too far down the comments to see someone making sense of this!  This is the fight to make - I cannot believe it is actually going to happen, but this is something I would have voted for (if anyone asked me :p) ", 
        "UFC corporate did market research and ran focus groups and then looked at which fighters have the most twitter and Instagram followers.", 
        "Probably not that far off. This is very likely the biggest money fight available for Conor.", 
        "It's also the biggest money fight for Nathan.  ", 
        "I think they might have skipped the focus groups.", 
        "Especially after seeing the dollar signs.", 
        "I understand Conor wanting to avenge this loss and the $$ making opportunity. But what if he loses again? Now you have the FW champ who has lost 2 times in a row outside of his weight class, and has help up the title for 7+ months at minimum. That devalues the FW title completely, and fuels the fire that Conor's demands are top priority. ", 
        "If Fedor fights Michelle Waterson and beats her twice, does that devalue women's MMA? No, but it'd be fun to watch. Well, maybe 3 women vs him; 1-on-1 would be a bit boring.", 
        "That's still only half as long as Aldo dodged the McGregor fight.", 
        "Agree this is a huge risk for McG. Shows he's got brass balls thou to be honest. He knows the risks. He's giving Nate a full camp too.\n\nIt's stupid...but I like it!", 
        "The UFC doesn't give a shit about belts, just about ratings. They've chosen to try and legitimize the sport by drawing the most eyes rather than putting on the best fights.", 
        "To your point, what if he wins? It's not like he didn't dominate rd 1. \n\nThen you've got your golden god back. You cash cow can return to full promo mode and in front of more people ( including lots of new fans who are getting into MMA for Diaz and Conor alone). If Conor wins, you have the potential for huge $$$ rewards both in the short and long term. The UFC has bet on conor before and won big time. No reason to stop now and play it safe. ", 
        "Nate said that with a full camp he wouldn't have let so many shots hit him, and I believe it", 
        "He did not dominate in round 1.", 
        "Exactly. I think everyone including Nate would say Conor won round 1 but he hit Nate with everything he had and it didn't even rock him. Unless he focuses the entire camp on cardio I can't see a different result.", 
        "Its easy to dominate when you're using up all your energy and the other guy's not.", 
        "If he goes back and defends, he will easily stay as a golden god in the media, and he will be fighting a division where he has proven success/a possible fighter he has already beaten. If he faces Nate again, he faces a fighter who has proven to be able to take conors shots, has better stamina and ground game. If he loses two in a row he will never be able to get his status back again. This is major risky.", 
        "This is true but not just because losing twice in a row to the same guy outside the division is bad but also because... EVERY CASUAL FAN WILL HAVE SEEN BOTH.  I'm not trying to be dramatic but trust me when I say that the UFC hasn't exactly won over their new fans yet.  Think about this, most of them saw the new superstar starch one of the P4P best in 13 seconds and then turn around and lose to a guy they probably hadn't heard of by getting choked out.  Then he loses to that guy again? Most of them will just say \"Well, that was fun for a couple a months, I'll go back to watching baseball now.  The only interesting fighter apparently sucks now.\"  I am in no way saying that's true but new fans are delicate fans man.  You have to keep them interested for a bit to hook them.", 
        "What do you mean \"what if?\" Of course he's going to lose. Unless he can get a BJJ black belt and a growth spurt by UFC 200 he will just lose worse to full camp Nate. ", 
        "People are forgetting how well Conor was doing in the first round.\n\nConor wasn't out boxed, he gassed out by mistakenly thinking he could get a knockout early, weathering too many counter-punches in the process.\n\nNate didn't beat Conor by superior BJJ any more than Holm beat Ronda with superior headkicks. \nBJJ/headkick was just the finishing weapon on top of a winning strategy. \n\nWithout Nate slowly wearing down Conor through resilience and counter-punching, Conor never gets desperate enough to shoot for a takedow, and Nate doesn't get Conors back.\n\nIf you look earlier in the fight Conors BJJ is more than enough to maintain an adequate defense, he even makes good use of cross guard to get top position.\n\nNate himself even said he prefers to knock people out but people don't let him because they tend to go for a takedown once they start getting beat down.\n\nThe question isn't whether Conor can out BJJ Nate, just like the question was never whether Holm could out Judo Rousey. The question is whether Conor can adapt his gameplan in the face of a fighter he has practically no chance of knocking out in the first two rounds.\n ", 
        "Nate was going to knock him the fuck out if he didn't go for the takedown.", 
        "> Without Nate slowly wearing down Conor through resilience and counter-punching, Conor never gets desperate enough to shoot for a takedow, and Nate doesn't get Conors back.\n\nHow does that change when Nate gets a full camp?  Conor went into that fight training for Anjos, who relies on his cardio and pace, just like the Diaz brothers do.  The big difference on this is that Nate is actually going to come in better prepared.", 
        ">Conor went into that fight training for Anjos, who relies on his cardio and pace, just like the Diaz brothers do\n\nAnd he probably wouldn't have done well in that fight either, but it doesn't mean he couldn't learn lessons from either loss. The things that work for Conor in FW don't work nearly as well at higher weights, and he needed a reminder of that.\n\n>How does that change when Nate gets a full camp?\n\nConor assumed that he could knock Nate out in the early rounds which is a hugely flawed gameplan in hindsight. He now has an opportunity to replace it with a gameplan that actually has a chance of working.\n\nDoes that mean he can steamroll Diaz in the rematch? No, he probably loses again, but he can actually attempt a more workable strategy this time round. Standing and trading with Nate simply isn't going to work. If he fights again he will be much more cautious, and hopefully much less reliant on his left hook which got him in a lot of trouble with nates reach advantage.\n\nConor has superior movement to Nate IMO but most of that ability was wasted in the fight since he was more focused on pushing through Nate's reach to try and get his left hook in than managing distance.\n", 
        "Conor won the first round, but he wasn't far ahead on  significant strikes (28/74 to 23/62) and he gassed while doing it. It's safe to say he put in significantly more effort into that round than Nate. I think that opening up a cut on Nate made people believe that the fight was more in Conor's favor than it actually was.", 
        "But don't you think the fact that Conor did so well in the first round is partly *because* he used too much energy?\n\nIt's like if you sprint the first half mile of a 10 mile race and then cramp up and can barely move. You'll be winning for a short while, but then you'll lose decisively. It's disingenuous to say \"I won the first half mile.\"", 
        "Still a strawman though. He didn't win the first round by headhunting and throwing bombs, he won it by placing *some* shots accurately, good head movement, being the aggressor and ending in a dominant posistion in the ground exchanges.", 
        ">But don't you think the fact that Conor did so well in the first round is partly because he used too much energy?\n\nCertainly he wouldn't do anywhere near as much damage to Nate again if he takes a more cautious approach, but that doesn't mean the technicality of his striking will suffer. \n\nConor got the better of most of the exchanges in the fight until it hit the tipping point in round 2 when he was both gassed and wobbled. It wasn't simply that Conor was hitting harder.\n\nOther fighters like Condit have commented that Nate can wear an opponent down simply by returning one strike for every two. Conor clearly thought he was hurting Nate so wasn't concerned that he kept getting tagged on his way in and out of Nate's reach. Rather than trying to aggressively push through Nate's reach to land that power left hook as he repeatedly tried in the last fight he could stay on the outside, utilize his movement and leg kicks, stretch the fight out to 5 rounds and try for points.\n\nThis doesn't mean Conor is somehow a favorite in the rematch but I think people are too quick to kneejerk dismiss his skills and ability to reformulate his gameplan, especially if they fight at 155 which will suit Conor better than 170", 
        "Yeah, I agree.  His volume wasn't what was kept him ahead in round 1.  He was winning the exchanges.  Also, if he focuses more on body shots like his coach wanted him to - I think he does more damage with less energy cost.", 
        "Conor will have lost two times to the same fucking guy too. Oh well, at least Nate is gonna get paid.", 
        "I think it's crazy as a McGregor fan, he either got hit too hard by Nate in their fight or his balls are even more gigantic than I thought. ", 
        "Or maybe yours are just extra tiny?", 
        "That loss has probably been eating at Conor's soul. Getting one back over on Nate is probably the only thing he's thinking about right now.", 
        "Yea, but what if he loses again?", 
        "What are the odds of him getting one back over on Nate, though?  Did he get a BJJ blackbelt within the last month?  Did he suddenly grow longer arms?  He got beat handedly and he was definitely concussed.  Conor's a warrior but he needs to take some time to heal his head after a fight like that, we've all seen fighters come back too soon from a concussion.  Lyoto Machida for example.", 
        "I don't think Conor's brain health is much of an issue after that loss. He got a little shaken up by the punches, but it wasn't a 5 round war or terrible finish.", 
        "a smarter game plan", 
        "Yeah the real fucking winner Nate Diaz'so bank account.", 
        "And that guy isn't even an elite contender. It's not like losing two straight to Lawler.", 
        "Nate is an elite contender. He's been into title fights.", 
        "He's a good fighter. Before the McGregor win, he was 2-3 in his last 5 fights. That's not elite in this sport.", 
        "He lost against RDA and bendo plus Thompson. Top 5 guys. ", 
        "He's an elite contender at LW. Diaz had mixed results at WW so I'd say he needs a few wins to be considered elite at 170.", 
        "Well, let Aldo and Frankie fight for the interim belt, and build a separate narrative while Conor fights Nate.", 
        "Fuck Conor's bullshit though. He should be defending his belt.", 
        "Aldo fought 8 times in 5 and 1/2 years. that's one fight every 8,25 months. Following that timeline, Conor should defend his belt around mid-August. So what if he waits until early September? \n\nStop whining and appreciate the fact that we're watching history play out in front of us.", 
        "Aldo would withdraw because he was recovering or injured. Conor is choosing to not defend his belt, and now it isn't eveb against RDA. It's against the guy he lost to on short notice, while Frankie and Jose Aldo are both ready and willing to fight him for the belt (which he has never defended so far).\n\nJust because you think McGregor is super cool or a great fighter doesn't mean he should be allowed to skip out on defending his title and do whatever he wants. And he got finished by Nate, why is this rematch even happening?", 
        "First of all, Frankie is injured, and Aldo should not be let in the cage until mid-Autumn according to Rogan (lets not start on this, I know he's a walking pseudo-science billboard, but he does have some insight into head trauma in MMA), which I think makes a lot of sense - look what happened to Mendes in his last fight. So in short, neither of them have been waiting on the sidelines for this. \n\nOn the other hand, they might be ready for UFC 200, and I understand your point, I just don't think it's as big of a deal as you make it out to be. Create an interim belt for them to fight for, and there are no problems. It also guarantees a match against Conor for the winner.", 
        "You're god damn right he will\n\n209 bitches", 
        "And why the hell is it at welterweight? They're both lightweights. I don't get it.", 
        "One possibility is they'll have WW and LW title fights and this would give them the flexibility to make a good backup matchup if there were injuries. \n\nNot saying it makes sense, just might be their rationale. ", 
        "Eh, just means both guys won't have to cut much weight. I don't see a problem there, they're about the same size anyway.", 
        "They aren't the same size though. One can make 145, the other can't.  Nate is always very lean when he makes 155. It's a sizeable cut for him to make.", 
        "How do you know Nate can't make 145?  And Conor makes it looking like death.  They're about the same size. Nate might be naturally 5 lbs larger. ", 
        "Are you actually suggesting he can make 145? Jesus. Are you crazy? The guy was 182 the night before the McGregor fight. Go look at the weigh-in for the Johnson fight. He was super lean and was at 156. He's a big lightweight as it is. He's unquestionably bigger than McGregor.", 
        "And Conor was 177, 5 lbs lighter, like I said. ", 
        "Source for that?", 
        "Why are you so invested in Conor having an excuse for his loss (i.e., he fought a larger man)? \n\nhttps://twitter.com/MMA_Jim/status/702391682613039104", 
        "At what point did I insinuate he lost because of size or because of any other excuse for that matter? Where on earth has that come from? I just said Nate is bigger. You're the one who has interpreted it that way. I wonder why. Nate won fair and square. \n\nAnd that guy also said he \"was told\" that Ronda would be in attendance for UFC196 when it was completely the opposite. He's trying to breakthrough and so makes some shit up and posts it on here.", 
        "I think they are doing it so that if Nate wins, he will have had time to get in shape and bulk up to welterweight for a title match with Robbie. And if Connor loses then he was still the undersized challenger.", 
        "I'm not sure the writer was saying the rematch would be at welterweight. I took it as him referring to \"a rematch of their Welterweight fight.\" Meaning its the rematch of a welterweight fight that can very well be at a new weight. \n\nI'm probably wrong, but that's what I'm going with because a welterweight rematch does not make any sense. Only a lightweight rematch does. \n\n", 
        "But if Conor loses again, please baby Jesus, then they can at least say he took the fights at WW and it doesn't stop him from making a potential run at LW in the future. Because two losses to Nate at LW would definitely bury those plans. ", 
        "Because they want him to win to set up GSP", 
        "That's the dumbest part of this all...they fought at welterweight because Nate didn't have time to weight cut.  Hopefully that's just bad information on mmafighting.com's part.", 
        "I thought that Nate was willing to get down to about 160-165 and do a catchweight bout, but Conor wanted the opportunity to fight for the welterweight title if he won and so pushed for it to be at 170.", 
        "Ultimate Rematch Championship.\n\nThis is the worst one we've seen in a while.", 
        "I loves rematches to be honest. Much drama", 
        "You lucky bastard! \n\nI love rematches too if they're the right ones. I'll enjoy this fight and buildup, but not nearly as much as if it could have been a bit further down the road.", 
        "It's because if conor can win then it immediately puts him back to superstar (who made a mistake.)", 
        "That's one of many plausible reasons. ", 
        "Only for Conor fans", 
        "Nah, this seems to a popular opinion across all MMA fans. Whatever supports your narrative though.", 
        "No I am pretty sure you're scared for the little plumber boy", 
        "Frankie?", 
        "no the guy who was living off his gf till he was 25", 
        "I disagree mate, this is easily the worst I can remember (if true). I was a big time Conor defender after the match when all the bandwagon jumpers were talking about how McGregor got exposed and is only able to beat guys who are smaller than him. I believe that with McGregor having the ability to focus properly on Diaz, Diaz having a proper camp, and McGregor having a better strategy (not chasing the knockout, targeting Nate's always vulnerable leg and possibly body) a rematch would likely be very different, one way or another. But when I talked about a rematch I meant several years down the line. This is just ridonculous. \n", 
        "Yeah I'm in agreement. Those last 3 words were more of a cover than anything else. I'd rather see McGregor vs anyone else in that LW top 10.\n\n\n", 
        "Ultimate Fighting for Ca$uals.", 
        "Meanwhile Cain Velasquez has a non rematch scheduled. Bizarro world.", 
        "Yup. And I'm more interested in watching that one than the replay with slightly more oxygen in the air.", 
        "Yeah, the only one comparable would be Barao getting a rematch so soon after getting his ass thoroughly beaten by Dillashaw (they fought at 173 and were scheduled to fight at 177 before the bathtub incident).", 
        "It would be more like if Silva had lost vs Bonnar, and they made that rematch instead of Silva vs Weidman.  \n\n\n\nThat would've made no sense.  Just like this makes no sense.", 
        "And even that one you could point to Barao's undefeated streak and lack of any other fights to make.", 
        "That at least was for a title. This isn't. ", 
        "Its for Conor's image", 
        "it's the UFC probably going all or nothing for Conor. If he wins he's the poster boy again. If he loses? Under the rug.", 
        "I guess the \"Conor Belt\" is real then. Too bad Full Camp Diaz will embarrass him.", 
        "If you offered a guy the Conor fight or a fight against dos anjos or lawler there going to pick Conor because Nate earned $500k for that fight but if he fought Dos Anjos he probably would've only got at most $100k", 
        "The fighters aren't to blame here at all.", 
        "Barao was a dominant champion, and was being listed in the top pound-for-pound fighters. The Cain-Werdum one is worse in my opinion.", 
        "Yeah, that one was also a terrible decision and coincidentally was also called off due to injuries sustained by the former champion.", 
        "Plus there were no other contenders at the time. Assunciao was still injured, Faber & Dillashaw were still cool & Cruz was also still injured. ", 
        "Yeah Barao vs TJ was more of a circumstance of the state of the division. Now this? Both Nate and Conor have lots of interesting options around them, why do this again? Nate vs RDA and Conor vs Frankie are no brainers that sell. You just got a huge spike in Nate's marketability, why wouldn't you ride that wave?\n\nFucking hell UFC.", 
        "One of the reasons I like ufc is their risk taking with their fighters. There was a video pointing out the differences compared to modern boxing and how they try and shelter their fighters much more. McGregor or Diaz is taking a hit here, even though they could ride both of them separately and make more money. People shouldn't be complaining about that aspect.", 
        ">You just got a huge spike in Nate's marketability, why wouldn't you ride that wave?\n\nThey are riding that wave, and they are pairing him up with the most popular fighter in the UFC. \n\nI think it's a weak rematch, but they just literally had the biggest fight in UFC history.\n\nOf course they are doing a rematch. ", 
        "As Schaub would say, 100%. I was shocked and pissed off when I read this title. So many great fights at FW especially Edgar vs. Conor. Easy sell too so this fight makes zero sense. \n\n\nWhat good does it do if McGregor wins? It by no means gives Conor legitimacy to take on Dos Anjos after & another loss is catastrophic to McG's sell-ability. At least with the weight class-jump you had a semi excuse. ", 
        "Among all the fight possibilities Nate and Conor both have, this is the least interesting one.", 
        "We almost got Hendricks V Lawler 3. That would have been a mess. ", 
        "Honestly if Lawler stays long term champ, I wouldn't mind a Rory MacDonal rematch in 2-3 years", 
        ">*We almost got Hendricks V Lawler 3.*\n\n\nThis one would've been the worst. Lawler's record would've shown Hendricks 3 times in a row..and for what? \n\nSo the people could see the sloppy degradation of post-roids Hendricks trying to stay relevant against the man who now has to gruelingly fight him 3 times in a row to prove he's earned the title? \n\nConor V Nate 2:\n\nNate and Conor aren't even in the same weight class.. Nate was pulled as a late replacement. No Belt or Title on the line, nothing. It was ONLY to \"save\" the fight card, and It did save the card in spectacular fashion because of how crazy the idea of them fighting was, but now that the fight has happened, the appeal to see that happen again is a fraction of what it was..\n\nUnless you're Dana right now either making a shameless money grab or trying to make sure his cash cow has a chance to make up for the loss..I don't see why in the world this is even on the table. \n", 
        "It already made very little sense. And now that I read your post, the UFC making this matchup makes even less sense. ", 
        "> Unless you're Dana right now either making a shameless money grab or trying to make sure his cash cow has a chance to make up for the loss..I don't see why in the world this is even on the table. \n\nI can't imagine Dana wants this, unless Zuffa really is selling the promotion and they want to jack up their numbers for negotiations. I mean, if Conor loses -- which is very possible -- there's no telling what it will do to his drawing power.", 
        "Lawler fought twice before rematching Rigg", 
        "\"This one would've been the worst. Lawler's record would've shown Hendricks 3 times in a row..and for what?\"\n\nActually only twice, Lawler fought 2 times before getting a rematch with Hendricks.", 
        "\" post-roids Hendricks\" \n\nI hate this shit. A very vocal faction on here dislikes Hendricks so they've decided he's a roid user with no proof.", 
        "> This one would've been the worst. Lawler's record would've shown Hendricks 3 times in a row..and for what?\n\nOther way around, Lawler fought Matt Brown and Jake Ellenberger between the Hendricks fights.\n\n", 
        "By no means did I want that fight, but as far as contentious decisions go, you don't get much more contentious than either of the Hendricks/Lawler fights. I'm much more a Lawler fan than a Hendricks fan, but scored Hendricks as winning both fights. On a purely objective level, a \"best of three\" series between the two might've been the best way to put the debate to bed. Again, glad it didn't happen on a personal level, but I would've found it difficult to argue against it from a sporting point of view.", 
        "That all makes sense because it's a matchup based off of merit albeit an unpopular one. \n\nMcGregor V Frankie/Aldo 2 also has a lot of merit and would have *a lot* more fan support. \n\nI can't think of any real repercussions for title shots etc regardless of who wins this fight. It makes sense on zero levels.  ", 
        "I agree completely. At this point it has to be Edgar, in my opinion. There's still doubts around McGregor's grappling and cardio and Edgar has earned the shot. I'd love to see the Aldo fight again because I'm still sore from the blue balls that the last fight gave me, but I'm tired of all the rematches. I don't even believe Weidman should've been put back in against Rockhold.\n\nThe precedent needs to be reset where a title rematch has to be earned.", 
        "> This is the worst one we've seen in a while.\n\nCertainly one of the hardest to justify.\n\n* It wasn't someone getting KO'd/Subbed in the opening seconds of a bout (Aldo/McGregor, Rousey/Zingano), where it could be argued that someone did something stupid and \"got caught\"\n* There wasn't a momentum shift resulting from a single failed technique (Weidman/Rockhold)\n* It wasn't a contentious decision (Lawler/Condit)\n* It wasn't an evenly contested bout that went down to the wire (Holm/Tate)\n\nOther than Conor, did anyone else really want or ask to see this one again? At least with Rousey/Holm II, the fans are interested in seeing it again.", 
        "I do. I'm *far* more interested in a rematch than anything else the UFC can offer.", 
        "It was two weight classes higher than Connor usually fights in. (before you WWE fanboys think I'm taking sides in a heel vs babyface bullshit, I like both Nate and Connor equally) but I would like to see the fight at 155 even.", 
        "I'd love to see it, give Connor a chance to work at that weight and get used to it", 
        "> There wasn't a momentum shift resulting from a single failed technique (Weidman/Rockhold)\n\nThis could be argued to be the case. Conor won the first and coming into the second he was loading up big on those shots and as a result may have gassed himself out and got rocked.", 
        "Hard to justify?\n\n#MONEY $$\n\nThat was easy. If McGregor goes and fights Edgar he very well could lose, my opinion that's his hardest featherweight fight, hype dead. \n\nMcgregor already \"beat\" Aldo, so I think there's going to be less hype than a rematch with Nate and still, McGregor could lose without that early KO to Aldo, you never know. \n\nMcGregor rematch with Nate? Well everybody is going to watch that, just as they did for 196. ", 
        "> did anyone else really want or ask to see this one again?\n\nHardcore fans, no. I think is reasonable to assume this is the biggest money fight available to Conor and the UFC, and Nate, but I doubt he has much of a voice. Hell, Nate could go from a guy who had probably never made all that much from fighting to a dude who could rake in over $10m for two fights. ", 
        "Conor doesn't have to defend his belt if he wastes time on dumb shit like this.", 
        "The winner came in on short notice with no training camp,so what makes anyone think the outcome will be any different when Nate is much more prepared?", 
        "I don't know how much you need to justify it honestly, I only feel that way about title fights", 
        "I think it goes down the exact same way in a rematch....but yeah, I *do* want to see it again.", 
        "I'm totally interested in seeing this rematch, I just hoped it would be further down the road after Conor had defended his belt a bit and was fully prepared to make the shift to LW permanently. The rematch at that point would have made total sense for Conor to come into the LW division unless he went straight for a belt again. And who knows, maybe Nate would have been waiting with the belt (unlikely, but who really knows?).\n\nDoing an immediate rematch just seems ill-advised and not thought out. I'd be happy if McGregor won this time, but then what? We do a third? And if he loses then what? I mean he'd still be relevant but that certainly takes away a ton of his shine.\n\nBut this makes total sense for Nate. A ton more money than even last time, and if he loses then so what really? He doesn't give a fuck about the belt; or so I've heard.", 
        "Nate wants the belt because gold and greenbacks go hand in hand. Diaz fans don't care about rematches against people that he previously beat. This just feels cheap and unfulfilling. ", 
        "Yeah, I was thinking we'd see something like this:\n\n1. Conor defends against Frankie\n\n2. Conor defends against Aldo\n\n3. After those two defenses, Conor rematches Nate Diaz at lightweight as his entry point into that division.\n\nDoing it this soon and at welterweight makes no sense at all.\n\n> But this makes total sense for Nate. A ton more money than even last time, and if he loses then so what really? He doesn't give a fuck about the belt; or so I've heard.\n\nYeah, I think Nate Diaz is the only real winner here. I'm sure he's stoked to get a second red panty night, and he'll probably make even more money this time around.", 
        "I like your plan a lot.", 
        "I'm interested in seeing it again, just not so soon. There are a few other fights each guy could have that I'd be more interested in. And it doesn't help that this is coming off a long string of rematches the UFC basically forced down our throats.\n\n", 
        "I'm interested in this fight some years down the road. Not now. This is also a bad business move for Conor.", 
        "...unless he wins. All fighters must believe thy can win. This is a bad decision of his team...maybe.", 
        "Let's see an interim fight for his belt while he chases his loss to Nate.  There's so many people I would rather see him fight.", 
        "Yeah. In a vaccuum it's a great fight + buildup. But this is way too soon and the last fight leaves much better options for both guys. \n\nDiaz is coming off that last fight hot and it doesn't seem like McGregor's drawing power will suffer much after the last loss. But it feels like both guys stock would drop a fair bit if they lose the next one.\n\nEdit: Thinking about this buildup a bit, it's not going to be easy. wtf is McGregor going to be able to say? At least if there was some space between the bouts and he had a few wins he could say he improved his cardio and bjj. ", 
        "Yeah, and why the balls would this match be the **main event of UFC 200?** A non-title rematch nobody wants to see at this point. If you want this on the card (I still think he should defend or drop his FW title first) then put it on there, but not as the main event. That is some stupid pandering.\n\nI love Conor, but dude gets choked out and gets rewarded with a pointless instant rematch AS THE MAIN EVENT OF UFC 200? While his belt still stays on his waist for no reason? Give me a break.", 
        "Nobody wants to see? Majority of the population wants to see McGregor, he could fight anyone and bring the large numbers, and he's probably the one choosing that he wants to avenge his loss, so what are you gonna do turn down your largest stars choice?", 
        "> Nobody wants to see? Majority of the population wants to see McGregor\n\nI never said that wasn't the case, go ahead and give him the main event again, but do it for his FW title since that's where *he is a champion*. He hasn't defended it once yet. What?\n\n> and he's probably the one choosing that he wants to avenge his loss, so what are you gonna do turn down your largest stars choice?\n\nYes. This is the Fertitta's and Dana's company, the UFC stands for Ultimate Fighting Championship, not Ultimate Fighting Conor. If he won, that'd be another story, sure, feed him to Robbie Lawler. But he didn't. \n\nMake him defend his belt versus either Aldo who deserves a rematch or Frankie Edgar who deserves a title shot FFS.\n\nBoth those fights would be bigger deals to me (and most people) than a second fight versus someone he had no business fighting (up two weight-classes) who just choked him out in 2 rounds.", 
        "You are the minority. Hardcore fans are the minority, and there are alot of fights the minority gets to see that casuals don't care about. Conor is one of their few fighters that pulls casual fans, he pulls big numbers, his arrangement for his fights is going to be a little different because he attracts a wider arrange of people. The ufc sometimes makes choices to grow their sport rather than appeal to the hardcore fans and that's why the ufc is as big as it is today. Even among the hardcore fans 145 wasn't that popular not that long ago and if this was a real championship Aldo and Edgar should have already got a fight lined up against each other to see who the next contender would be. The hype and excitement would be much more for McGregor beating Nate rather than McGregor beating anyone at 145.", 
        "Casual here (feel dirty admitting it).  Never watched an entire card until McGregor-Mendes.  I can't speak for every casual fan but I don't see the appeal of this.  I was amped to see both McGregor and Diaz in title fights next.  Now?  I guess we get a redo.", 
        "Anyone posting in this sub is stepping out of casual territory and becoming a bit more serious, real casual fans got invited to their friend house because he was watching the fight and they heard that Irish guy talking shit and getting knockouts and was fighting a weight division up. \n\nI consider myself a pretty serious fan and anytime some of my favorite fighters fight I enjoy it no matter who they're fighting, there's damn near a good fight every other weekend and I don't see much to complain about. Id personally prefer Aldo vs Edgar as I feel that was a rematch that deserves needs and needed to happen long before McGregor and I feel like it's the right thing to do to set up the next contender for chamionship fight when they both want it, and Diaz fighting rda again I don't see him winning anyway possible, so while I wouldn't mind seeing it and wouldn't complain about them setting it up, I don't see it offering much, I mean,  people need to calm down a bit.", 
        "You sound confused mate. It does not grow the sport to cater to everything McGregor asks for, that makes no sense. It grows the McGregor brand, nothing else.\n\n\nAnd casual fans don't give a fuck about match-ups, they just want to see Conor fight. He could fight you, a frail computer nerd, and they would still tune in. ", 
        "It grows the sport for McGregor to be going for two belts looking like a champion. If he wins the fight against Nate it sets the ufc in a very good place, then even better if he beats rda. Doing 145 isn't gonna bring anyone who wasnt already watching McGregor. \n\nI'm at the gym replying from my phone right now. Some of you minority fans seem a little tilted. Boohoo. Conor is fighting at 155, this sport stinks. You keyboard warriors are too much. \"I'm gonna go on reddit and complain and talk about my feelings\". ", 
        "Nothing about the card announced so far makes me think it is anything special.", 
        "Which is why I don't understand Dana and his team. They're blowing all their loads on the cards right before the one that's *supposed to be big* from a marketing standpoint. It's just bad business.", 
        "Dana's accountant.", 
        "I think it is McGregor. He probably obsesses over the loss and for him to get his groove back he needs to win, but they will not do it at 170lb again, this time I think they will stack against Diaz. I think the fight is uninteresting. ", 
        "Think about how they can negotiate with McGregor after Nate's leathered his arse twice in the space of a few months too. That'll save them a stack of cash as well as milking this rivalry while it's still hot. Wouldn't surprise me if it's solely to bring Conor back to earth.", 
        "Pay negotiations are based on the value the fighter brings to an event -- e.g. drawing power. If Conor's pay drops it's because he's less of a draw, and that's very bad for the UFC. They're losing a lot more than they're saving.\n\n**tl;dr** There's no scenario where Conor's pay drops and the UFC can expect to see a net gain.", 
        "Understandable in the normal sense but Conor's stock has blown up so fast, shit could get personal between them, curbing Conors ego/negotiating powers so he isn't as strong should he threaten to leave for another org. etc. He's already demanding all sorts & they're having to cave (by the looks of it). It's obviously all speculation but even just the fact it used to be Uncle Dana this & that & now he's referring straight to Lorenzo could have pissed Dana off. Who knows. Nothing would surprise me with how they've handled a lot of shit over the years.", 
        "Makes sense in a way cause Nate and Conor are the fighters that the wider public have their eyes on and a rematch with them would be interesting. If Conor wins, the Conor train keeps rolling and possibly a third fight with Nate. If Nate wins, Conor can still fall back on the featherweight division and still hold some interest there.", 
        "UFC's CFO", 
        "Data's accountant is very short sighted.", 
        "Data doesn't need an accountant, he's an android.", 
        "DATA 5000", 
        "makes sense\nEdit:\n\nAccountant: Hey dana,  we will make 50 million more if we do a diaz vs conor rematch and you get more money for h***** & Co** \n\nDana: Alright ya goof, fuck aldo & edgar,les get this done ", 
        "i just imagine the accountant's face go from happily smiling to depressed after dana calls him a goof.. all he wanted was just a little respect.", 
        "\"You need to diversify your bonds, bitch.\"", 
        "That is probably what genuinely happened. Dana saw the numbers and knew that Aldo-McG 2 wouldn't get that and wanted a bigger fight moneywise. ", 
        "Yep that is why you can't consider the UFC as a sport.  Too much has to do with profits when making matchups where the most deserved contender don't even get a chance.  ", 
        "You guys act like dana has the final saying. Lmao its ultimately lorenzo and his team that makes the call", 
        "I mean, it makes sense. In fight promotions, you make the biggest fight you can, when you can. You don't hold out for fights that can diappear in seconds if things don't go your way.\n\nRonda got beat.\nJones got suspended.\nHolm got beat. \nRDA got injured.\nConor got beat.\n\nAll these things threw a wrench in the UFC's \"plans\" and ostensibly cost them money. They are going to make the biggest fights while they still can. ", 
        "Depends on if you are thinking short term or long term. If Nate beats Conor again, much of Conor's aura will be gone and he will become far less marketable for the UFC. ", 
        "conor vs nate is not the biggest fight, i dont think people give a shit to see it in general. everyone knows this is just a way to get give conor a second chance.  its not anderson vs weindman 2 big", 
        "Lol McGregor v Diaz 2, is going to absolutely dwarf Anderson vs Weidman 2,.. Are you kidding me?", 
        "not talking about numbers and ppv buys, of course everyone is going to tune in.  im talking about interest from the true mma fans perspective ya goof", 
        "You can go on pretending you don't care about McGregor and his antics, and that he's all show, but don't believe for a second that hardcore fans won't be watching a Diaz brother fight McGregor; even if it is a rematch.", 
        "It's bigger than Anderson vs Weidman 2.\n\nAsk the folks at work/school who you know don't give a shit about \nMMA if they know who Conor McGregor is or NAte Diaz. Chances are some of them do. Ask them if they know Chris Weidman. Probably no one does. Name recognition is huge. It's why people still pay attention to Tito or Kimbo. \n\n\n\n", 
        "Most people at work don't give a shit about the UFC anymore.  Back around 2012 or so was when it was good.  ", 
        "I get that. But when every mma fan saw there is a rematch. Our reactions were \"huh why? Ok i guess\".   Unlike andy vs chris 2 were everyone in the mma community was excited and talking about the rematch before the night ended. Conor vs nate 2 is not ufc 200 material. What a disappointment to the fans ", 
        "I'd be much for excited for aldo/mc than nate. But the casual fans probably feel different. ", 
        "with the hype 196 created in main stream media, nate-conor 2 would see much more than any other match up for conor. but conor might be committing suicide by going for this rematch ", 
        "Fuck the casual fans. There are more regular fans who want to see a fight that isn't going to be a one sided beating. Casual fans like my friends will have little interest in seeing this matchup again.", 
        "Agree. I'd love to watch a full Aldo-McG fight as well but casual fans can relate to Nate better than a non English speaking Aldo. Plus Conor's trash talk combined with Nate's IDGAF attitude makes for great television. Feel sorry for Aldo but this is a business at the end of the day.", 
        "Can't really count on Aldo tho.  I wouldn't put my money on him not pulling out for a event like 200.", 
        "How about Nate vs Aldo?", 
        "RIP Nate's legs", 
        "Seriously? 200 needs title fights... \n\nWhy not Nate vs. RDA and Conor vs. Frankie, and then have the Nate vs. Conor rematch for the LW title at a later date. ", 
        "I'm almost certain this means RDA and Robbie are fighting at 200 for the 170 belt.  ", 
        "> Why not Nate vs. RDA and Conor vs. Frankie, and then have the Nate vs. Conor rematch for the LW title\n\nSeveral reasons. One of them is that RDA would probably eat Nate's lunch again.", 
        "It needs big fights, whether they're title fights or no doesn't matter.\n\nHolm vs Rousey + Conor vs Nate would be massive regardless of whether they were title shots.", 
        "Do it all in the same night; tournament style like the good ol' days!", 
        "This makes so much more sense, I like this a lot.", 
        "And Aldo-Holloway.", 
        "100% this is the solution. ", 
        "Won't be surprised if this fight is the main event in spite of the title shots on the same card.", 
        "Well imagine if Tate vs. Rousey and Lawler vs. GSP/RDA are headlining and Conor vs. Nate is 3rd down the list? That ain't bad.", 
        "Since they're in rematch mode, I wouldn't be surprised if they do Lawler vs. Condit.", 
        "Because you can't rely on the results of fights to make rematches. See: Holm vs Miesha. ", 
        "They expect Jones to beat DC, then cash in on the rubber match for 200 as the major title fight, prob have female title fight as well, then just build the rest around their poster boys ", 
        "That's actually a great idea.", 
        "I agree with this. Conor/Aldo Raphael dos anals/Nate @ 200  then have Conor/Nate fight again @ 209 or something. That way you get two big fights from nate's win. Imagine if nate beats rda that rematch fit the title would be insane. ", 
        "He's scared homie", 
        "That would make too much sense tho", 
        "I completely agree with you. That fight did not warrant an immediate rematch", 
        "Cash talks, mayne", 
        "Assuming diaz beats rda, which he wont imo.", 
        "Yeah I agree Conor should at least alternate FW defenses unless he wants to vacate the belt. Regardless, I want to see this fight just to find out how well Conor can adjust to an opponent who handled him well.", 
        "I love Nate but he isn't beating RDA. ", 
        "Me before 196: \"I love Nate, but Conor's going to kill the poor bastard.\"\n", 
        "Yea, his legs are gonna get lit up again.", 
        "I think he could. He would be the underdog definitely, but it would be a way closer fight than the first time around.", 
        "There was clearly something wrong with him in the RDA fight. ", 
        "Ya, it's called the fact that RDA had a gameplan and didn't stand in front of Diaz like Fuckhead McMoron did", 
        "I'm guessing Conor doesn't want to cut back down to featherweight, and the only way they could keep the hype for going for the lightweight belt is if he avenged his loss at lightweight", 
        "but they're fighting for the McGregor Belt!\n", 
        "I really hope we keep the track on the McGregor belt, it would be really fun to see who has it 5 years from now.", 
        "Goes to show how big a star McGregor has become.  He is waaay out in front of the pack.", 
        "Diaz already won that shit", 
        "and now he has to defend it", 
        "Not against that clown. Conor's got to pay child support in his own division.", 
        "ay it's the Diaz belt now, mother fucker!", 
        "I don't give a shit about a rematch with Nate, I hope this isn't true.", 
        "I don't give a shit about any rematch with Nate, including RDA's.", 
        "I second this.", 
        "Can you imagine if Conor loses AGAIN? God, that's a tough one to get through.", 
        "It's really a no win scenario. Like even if he does win, what does that do for him? He needs to defend the belt at FW. He's a champion and that's what champions do. Unless he's never going back to 145 then I don't see the point of this fight.", 
        "UFC 196 showed quite clearly that titles mean little to PPV performance when you have big stars. ", 
        "A ton of casual fans thought the fight was for the title and were confused about why Nate didn't win it.  ", 
        "what are you talking about?  that fight was for the mcgregor belt.", 
        "Everyone gave pride shit for doing that yet here we are entering that phase.", 
        "Interesting that Holm's belt was on the line, but the a non-title fight was the main event and the title fight was the co-main. I can't recall seeing that before.", 
        "Well, the main event was scheduled to be a title fight, but when rda got hurt it ceased to be. ", 
        "for 200, this fight won't be the main event", 
        "That would be the smart move for Conor, make it a three-rounder.", 
        "The viewers don't give a fook about the belt", 
        "Then why do they carry it everywhere? ", 
        "you're on steroids", 
        "I don't give a fuck either!!!", 
        "like... idk... UFC 209?\n\n", 
        "Dammit i was the 208th upvote", 
        "haha.  Both Diaz brothers better be scheduled for that one.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Is Nick eligible to fight by then? I'm assuming 200 will be in July. ", 
        "Yea 209 won't be until like next August-ish.", 
        "For sure.  He was suspended for 18 months, he'll be back this year.", 
        "UFC 209: Cholo Gangster vs Mystic Mac & Nick Diaz vs Robbie Lawler Punches", 
        "As much as people don't want to hear it, Nick Diaz doesn't deserve to fight Lawler for the title when he hasn't won a fight in years now, and when Welterweight has Rory and Wonderboy fighting for a title eliminator. That said, if Lawler loses to Rory or Wonderboy BEFORE 209 comes, then yes Lawler vs Diaz would be awesome because it's not for a belt, and there's a history from a decade ago between those two.\n\nNick should absolutely fight in UFC 209 but maybe give him Woodley, possibly even Condit if he accepts it, but can't imagine Nick coming back and first thing, bam, title fight after no wins in 5 years.", 
        "give him a can to slap around if it's going to be his first fight back", 
        "cesar gracie jj vs sbg has much more appeal for me, nate vs conor at LW and nick vs gunnie at WW would be dope main events.\n\n\u20ac:just realized this would be probably the most WWE thing ever. let's just go all out and get shields signed again, give him and giblord mandala some fun matches, like the in ring murder of CM punk and call that shit \"UFC 209 : ~~Full Blast~~ ~~The bay area Massacre~~ The Slapening 2\" or something", 
        "At welterweight again, what a clusterfuck", 
        "I heard CM wants it at LW", 
        "Fuck it, put them on burgers and beer diet, and let them fight heavyweight. Maybe we see some summo shit. \n\nIt's all for the lulz at this point anyway, why not?", 
        "Please let this not be true.  Why would they do this?  If they do the rematch right away it should be a lightweight title eliminator.", 
        "If they want it a welterweight, that should be Nick's fight.", 
        "I'm not sure the writer was saying the rematch would be at welterweight. I took it as him referring to \"a rematch of their Welterweight fight.\" Meaning its the rematch of a welterweight fight that can very well be at a new weight. \n\nI'm probably wrong, but that's what I'm going with because a welterweight rematch does not make any sense. Only a lightweight rematch does. ", 
        "Couldn't let the casuals know Conor actually lost to a LW.", 
        "I doubt the casuals pay much attention to the weight classes. They'll have no idea what the difference between a WW and a LW is. ", 
        ">the difference between a WW and a LW is.\n\nObviously a WinWin vs a LossWin, bro.", 
        "*alright, show yourself to the door pls*", 
        "The majority of Nate's fights have been at LW.  ZERO reason to make this WW.  Conor's pride could derail his whole career here.", 
        "Well to be fair, even if his career goes off the rails he can retire at any given moment and look back upon a mostly hugely successful career that most people would only dream about.  \n\nAnd on the other hand, yeah pride is a bitch. ", 
        "It's what made his whole career too.  Can't expect him to not follow that line of thinking now.\n\nI agree with you that it will ruin his career.", 
        "Shouldn't it have been a bit of a wakeup call for him, or at least his camp? The guy's clearly not invincible.", 
        "Yes in theory.  My theory, is that Conor knows he's not invincible and this is and has been a money grab for him.  He'll set up whatever fight makes him the most cash.  And thats what he's doing here.", 
        "That's the most retarded thing about this, I thought McGregor would've learnt already that his \"there are no weight classes in warfare\" talk was bullshit. We have weight classes for a reason.", 
        "they're both 155ers, and he arguably lost because he gassed", 
        "There was a considerable size difference though. McGregor is a big featherweight that makes weight, Diaz is a big lightweight that has failed to make lightweight. McGregor is certainly the same size as some lightweights, but he is smaller than the larger lightweights such as Diaz.", 
        "There's also a considerable size difference between Conor and most of his opponents at 145, so what?  He's  massive at that weight class.", 
        "I never said he wasn't a big featherweight, he is. He and Jose Aldo are both big for the weight class, McGregor just has a more lanky frame.", 
        "> Diaz is a big lightweight \n\nlol!!\n\nsome of you mcgregor superfans are just ridiculous \n\nnate is one of the smaller, weaker lightweights out there\n\nheight is not the only factor in 'size'\n\nif both fighters cut to 155 conor would be at a lower bodyfat and hydration level than nate, theres no doubt about it. you could even say conor is 'bigger' in that sense ", 
        "Fails to make weight at 155\nMcGregor makes weight at 145\n\nSure they're the same size.", 
        "Yeah, GTFO with that \"Nate doesn't make weight\" bullshit.  As if it's a regular thing, like Rumble Johnson or something. When healthy, he has never struggled to make 155, and is in fact a very undersized fighter at 170.  Just like Conor.", 
        "You're a raging moron. Stop spreading lies.\n\nNate failed to make lightweight because he was disinterested and injured.", 
        "Twice? He failed against Cerrone as well. And has mentioned that the cut is tough on him before.", 
        "Both guys are 155'ers, and Diaz didn't even have a camp. If McGregor couldn't win the first one, what reason is there to do a rematch?", 
        "He's only failed to make weight once when he was sick and injured against RDA. ", 
        "Technically Nate failed to make weight once, because he was ill or injured. He's had nearly 30 fights in the UFC, Conor has had eight.", 
        "he failed because of an injury, no? nate has made 155 a ton of times and was undersized at 170? i'm unsure if he was actually undersized or not, but all I know of nate at 170 is him flying through the air against rory", 
        "Yes, Nate is too small for WW. He's not even particularly big for LW. He's tall, sure, but there's plenty of guys, including RDA, at that weight that have at least five pounds on him on fight night. ", 
        "I'd  imagine Benson and Cowboy are heavier, as well", 
        "Yeah, he was the one on 10 days notice...", 
        "All of McGregor's success in his career has come at featherweight. He's a featherweight. He's had two fights against legit competition at 155 and they were against Joe Duffy and Nate Diaz. Guess how both fights ended?", 
        "i think that's dumbing it down a bit. he lost one because his ground game sucked back in the day, and arguably lost the second because he gassed. and didn't he fight the cage warriors champ at 155? he was legit, no?", 
        "Should be reworded to say that *in the ufc,* all of Conor's  success has been at 145. I suppose you could say Poirier is evidence of his success against lightweights, but Poirier had to bulk up  a lot.", 
        "It's not dumbing it down at all, those are just facts. Why do you keep saying that he gassed in the Diaz fight like that means anything? Not gassing is a key part of being a good fighter. If you're gassed by the middle of the second round in a five round fight that you didn't cut weight for then you have serious problems with either your cardio or your fighting style. Also Ivan Buchinger isn't what I'd call legit, he's a decent fighter in smaller promotions. He hasn't got any recognizable wins on his resume.", 
        "> It's not dumbing it down at all,\n\nWell it is because you're only taking into account weights and nothing else about the fight when you say \"He's had two fights against legit competition at 155 and they were against Joe Duffy and Nate Diaz. Guess how both fights ended?\".\n\nAside from that, are you saying these fights would have gone differently if they were at 145?", 
        "No I'm not, I'm just pointing out that McGregor has lost to the only two decent lightweights that he's fought. He has a good record at featherweight, he should stay there. These fights wouldn't happen at 145 because neither Joe Duffy or Nate Diaz can/will make the cut. I think Diaz would die trying to make 145, he's fucking huge for lightweight so featherweight is not an option. So you're question makes no sense.", 
        "> McGregor has lost to the only two decent lightweights that he's fought.\n\nThat doesn't mean LW isn't for him, though... That's all I'm saying. I think he's tall for LW, but not huge muscle-wise.", 
        "Not gassing is such a stupid excuse especially against the Diaz Brothers. Endurance is part of their style. That's like saying that Connor only wins because he throws accurate strikes.", 
        "Exactly, throwing everything you have at a guy in round one who is known for his durability and cardio is just the worst strategy. ", 
        "Most of his fights before UFC were at lightweight. While most of those you can argue weren't elite competition, some weren't complete cans. Ivan Buchinger for example is a legit fighter. ", 
        "Since when is Ivan Buchinger a legit fighter? Name me his most impressive win", 
        "That's not true tho", 
        "What's not true?", 
        "That he's only fought twice at 155. That's cherry picked ", 
        "> He's had two fights against legit competition at 155 \n\nLegit competition mate, he's beaten Ivan Buchinger at 155 but that isn't legit competition. That's a guy with no fights in the UFC and no impressive wins on his record. I accept that he has wins at lightweight, but they weren't against UFC calibre guys. ", 
        "are we still living in excuses town? he lost because he got punched in the face and choked.", 
        "To be fair, Conor was dominating Rd1. If the same Conor showed up in Rd2 and beyond, the fight would have likely been different. Not taking anything away from Nate; I think it's amazing he won. I'm just saying it's disingenuous to act like Conor wasn't winning and then got gassed. And then Nate beat the fuck out of him.  ", 
        "we love being fair. Is it also fair to say that he gave everything he had in the first five minutes while taking more damage than he's used to?", 
        "Totally! \n\nCardio and pace are a weapon, ones that Nate used way more effectively. IMO, It doesn't take anything away from Nate's win to say that Conor gassed and then Nate take took advantage of him. \n\nWars have strategy and fights have game plans. Nate's worked and he won! ", 
        "it's still an excuse for conor. he lost because nate beat him. not because of his choices. ", 
        "What? What are you saying?\n\n\"He lost because Nate beat him\" Uh yeah, you just defined a loss.\n\nNate also won because Conor didn't win. He also won because Conor lost. Good point. ", 
        "It's called framing.  To put the loss on conor's actions minimizes nate's win. Like nate isn't even there.", 
        "Beat that ass 10 days after he was partying in cabo. .....McGregor had a full camp. We'll see the same weapons from McGregor but sharper skills from Diaz.", 
        "> We'll see the same weapons from McGregor but sharper skills from Diaz.\n\nLet's hope not and the fact that he's gone for a rematch suggests there is somewhat of a plan whether it is a change of style or something else. Conor has shown a good ability to adapt in the cage before and in the post fight he immediately pointed to his inefficiency which suggests he knows what he did wrong. Diaz will definitely be better but I would expect to see something different from Conor even if it is just less spinning kicks. ", 
        "I don't see any scenario that results in Conor winning. I'm biased but after seeing the fight he solely relied on power. Period. He had nothing else. No movement no fakes. Just hella punches with mustard on em. Nate ate em and did his thing. The difference is now nate will be more conditioned which I think will translate to better head movement and taking less damage. Nate has probably got the best boxing in the biz...add world class BJJ and I don't see conors single faceted style win.\n\nEdit- I think Conor mindfucked himself and that's the reason for the rematch. Pride.", 
        "No movement, what? He slipped a ton of Nates strikes. And he was tagging Nate at will with a huge amount of strikes, they weren't just heavy punches, they were well timed and accurate. I'm not even a fanboy, I was glad to see Nate win, but Nate is lucky he has a hard head and can take a lot of abuse. Conor has a bad habit of keeping his chin way up and his hands so low, which Nate was able to capitalize on, mainly by continuing to take damage until he caught Conor. ", 
        "he stood in front of nate like a statue trying to get his right hand off...any mma fighter that cant slip a 1-2 shouldnt be a pro. thats the combo used to great effect. in this fight the technical boxer won.  i dont think nates plan was to take damage until he caught him, nate even said hes confident with full camp he wouldnt have been hit so much. ", 
        "Gassing is not a fucking excuse what are you on about?", 
        "Be rational, it played a part.  He looked more tired than I have ever seen him coming into the second.  Fighting at that weight vs what he is used to is very different. ", 
        "So why is he doing it again? I don't see how this rematch makes sense unless Conor and co are  highly averse to cutting to 145. Even then, why  not pit him against, say, Cowboy? ", 
        "He is doing it again because of his pride. Anything less than a win at the weight he lost at is gonna be unacceptable to him and he has the pull to demand the rematch, that's why this is happening. \n\nI'm sure the money sounds really good to Nate as well. He's gonna make more money in two fights than probably the last couple years combined and this time he's in a position to ask for more money as well since he is part of the story,  it has to be him, Connor can't redeem himself against anyone else.", 
        "> So why is he doing it again?\n\nIf it's true then it's because he believes he can do it, and can prepare better to fight at that weight.  Why it's not at 155 either is beyond me.  I don't agree with the fight either way though.  A FW title defense makes much more sense.", 
        "Conor fan here. Agreed. He got owned.", 
        "He lost but it was hardly a beatdown either. He got caught and Nate quickly finished him. ", 
        "a split decision loss qualifies as not a beatdown. Being punched into lala land and choked is a beatdown.", 
        "I don't know about that, that wouldn't be the fashion I would want to lose in if I was Conor. Id say that ground and pound mixed with the quick choke was pretty much a beat down... ", 
        "He did gas badly though, throwing 2000 killshots in the first round opened him up to being punched in the face and choked.", 
        "he was also getting hit while throwing those shots.", 
        "That's the danger of killshots though ", 
        "How is it an excuse?  It's a reason.  Conditioning and stamina are a part of being good at fighting.  If you say someone lost because they gassed, you're not making an excuse for them, you're describing (one of) the ways in which they were worse at fighting than the other guy. ", 
        "He got punched in the face. \n\nEveryone talked about how Conor was a fighting genius in his fight against Chad and how Chad gassed because of Conor's kicks. \n\nConor won because the kicks to Chad's body caused Chad to gas. Conor lost because the punches to Conor's face caused Conor to gas.  ", 
        "I don't see how that goes against anything I said though.  Having good conditioning allows you to throw strikes and keep going and it also allows you absorb strikes and keep going.  It's not like we're talking about entirely separate things.   My only point is that \"gassing out\" is not an excuse.  It's a very important aspect of training, so to see it as a way to defend Conor makes no sense. ", 
        "I don't think that's true either. There are a lot of different aspects about gassing out that have nothing to go with cardio. \n\nAdrenaline, for example, can make you gas. Concision can make you gas. You could be able to run 2 marathons a day and then get punched in the head and be gassed running around the block.   ", 
        "You don't think what's true?  Again, it doesn't seem like you actually challenged anything I said, you just gave an example of other factors that can lead to gassing.  Yeah, there are other factors, what's your point?  There are many many factors that can contribute to someone winning or losing a fight and they are not easily quantified.  If you have both poor conditioning and an adrenaline dump then you'll gas faster than someone with great conditioning and an adrenaline dump.  It's not as if conditioning stops being a factor and you'll never know how much the adrenaline contributed. \n\nDo you believe that saying \"so and so gassed out\" is a valid excuse?  If not then I don't know why you're arguing with me.  ", 
        "If you think Conor had poor conditioning going into the fight with Diaz, you are either a fool or you are swinging off of Conors nuts so hard you can't recognize the truth even when Diaz slaps you with it. \n\nYou people need to quit making up your ridiculous excuses for Conor's loss.  ", 
        "If you're less conditioned to a guy that had food poisoning a couple weeks before and was, and I quote, \"being a fat boy in Cabo\" 11 days before the fight, your preparation is shit and that's 100% on you.", 
        "Nate later went on to state he trains 2 hours a day out of camp every day because he has no other hobbies, and claims he trains harder out of camp than some people do in camp. His words. He's dangerous 365 days of the year. ", 
        "i love these contradictions. It's hard to tell what to believe here. ", 
        "Don't forget the panic wrestling, motherfucker!", 
        "all of a sudden, too. ", 
        "In his mind, he needs that to completely erase the previous loss.  So now the weight is the same as last time so no one can knock him on it, and Nate gets a full camp to prepare.... so if Conor wins he can say he beat a 'better' version of Nate than the one who beat him in the first fight.  ", 
        "I think the goal is for him to win and the last loss could be tossed up as a fluke. From a casual fans perspective and from a business perspective this would be best case scenario and would renew Conor's image. This isn't me saying I think it's what should happen btw.", 
        "But What if he loses again?\n\n", 
        "Than he's boned, especially if he has to vacate the 145 belt so it can be contested at 200.", 
        "Oh this is a terrible idea. ", 
        "Lucrative, though. ", 
        "From a martial arts stand point its pointless, but at least Nate gets paid, and if he wins, shuts McGregor DOWN.", 
        "He *already* shut McGregor down. It wasn't a fluke victory. He weathered the early storm, knocked Conor around on the feet, and dominated the fuck out of him on the ground. All on ten days' notice. There is ZERO reason to do this fight again.", 
        "Diaz already shut McTappo down. Fat boy straight out of the beach in Cabo.\n\nThe thing is, McTappo's dick is so deep in Dana's throat that he can't deny his boy another hand-picked bout.", 
        "Yeah, but McGregor could still recover from it by defending his belt/destroying other fighters then coming back for the rematch.\nIf he loses the immediate rematch, I don't see him recovering that well", 
        "Totally.  McGregor would lose any credibility at 155/170 and basically confirm Nate's whole 'fighting midgets' observation.  IMO McGregor would be dumb to take this fight.  He overplayed his hand and got burned so just quit while you're behind already.", 
        ">  if he wins, shuts McGregor DOWN.\n\nAlready shut him down.", 
        "money talks man, i don think nate will be too unhappy with this. He can finally get that boat he was talking about ", 
        "He could get a pirate ship and fill it with all his 209 ninjas.", 
        "Skrap Pack baby! Here we come!", 
        "This is a fun comment.", 
        "Stolen*", 
        "I'm happy for Nate though, he's going to end up rich as fuck.", 
        "Why? Nate won, you should be happy for Mcgregor that he gets another chance. ", 
        "Nate can't say yes fast enough when offered this fight.", 
        "Easiest payday of his life with a full camp \n\n", 
        "no more belt for Conor, 2 losses, NO EXCUSES THIS TIME,\n\nhype train: derailed", 
        "Nate will get his 500k + PPV points against any fight in the main event now. He should really fight for a title instead.", 
        "They don't give out PPV pts like that. There's no way the UFC would pay out PPV pts to McGregor, Diaz, and presumably a champion defending all on the same card. ", 
        "That makes 0 sense. You just went full \"woooosh\"", 
        "What don't you understand? The UFC doesn't pay out PPV pts nearly as much as people think. And if they do, there's a significant amount of qualifiers that limit it. IMO it's unlikely Diaz got PPV pts vs McGregor and even more unlikely he's getting them now moving forward as a non champion. Secondly there's only so many PPV pts that can be given out in a single card. Example; UFC200 I think it's safe to assume either Lawler or RDA will fight on the card as well. The UFC wouldn't pay out PPV pts to 3 different guys all on the same card. \n", 
        "Ariel confirmed Nate got PPV points. Sooooo, I won't even read the rest of your dumb argument, you have no idea what you are talking about.", 
        "I said it seems unlikely, if you have a source by all means post it. Regardless even if he got pts, there's no guarantee moving forward he would as well (esp as non champion). But really? Sticking in your head in the sand and ignoring an argument is silly and immature. ", 
        "Yeah he got PPV points - that isn't even in question ", 
        "I'd say they will both be guaranteed a million each plus a PPV cut and likely win bonuses ", 
        "He has a 500k per fight contract now? That's how it works? Chad Mendes now has a 500k per fight contract? Surely not.", 
        "That's not how it works. But Mendes lost, Nate won in the biggest PPV in UFC history. He is a huge star now.", 
        "Terrible idea. Blocks featherweights. There was no controversy in the first fight. A loss to Conor kills off a shit ton of hype and leaves him in limbo. And, if the cards turn up, a rematch with Diaz in a year or two from now would be HUGE. They're dropping the ball.\n\nOnly explanation might be that McGregor is not willing to cut down to 145 anymore. If that is the case, then I completely understand. But a rematch with Diaz doesn't make a world of sense. I'm hoping this is one of those situations like the Ronda-Tate 3 announcement where the UFC leaks information just to get a read on the public. If so... Are you out of your damn mind?! Conor is going to sell no matter what. 200 is going to sell no matter what. Throwing him up against someone with as tough mental as Diaz and with the size advantage of Diaz is the opposite of protecting your investments. Who wouldn't watch a McGregor comeback fight against Cowboy? Ferguson? Pettis? Hell, RDA-McGregor even makes more sense than a rematch.", 
        "> Only explanation might be that McGregor is not willing to cut down to 145 anymore.\n\nIf that's the case he needs to give up the belt.", 
        ">not willing to cut\n\nMcGregor v Edgar at WW for the FW belt. Fuck it, we're committed to this crazy train.", 
        "I'd like a rematch eventually, but further down the line. I'd like to see  Conor defend the featherweight belt against Aldo and Edgar first.", 
        "Perhaps the weight cut to 145 was too much?", 
        "Fine, but fight at 155 then, not 170...", 
        "WTF?", 
        "Honestly...I understand from a marketing perspective.\n\nIs it fair to Frankie or the rest of that division which is now on hold? No. Is it the match I or most other dedicated fans want to see? Not really\n\nThat said, dedicated or 'hardcore' fans are not the majority. What IS the majority are a bunch of people who saw Conor McGregor as an unbeatable force that saw that notion dashed in what might have been the most watched live MMA event in history. \n\nWhat this match provides is opportunity to grab some of that aura back. To demonstrate that the first one was just a fluke, to the casual observer (even though we know that's nonsense). It rekindles some of Conor's 'mystique' if he can win impressively. This of course is parlayed into even bigger dollars. \n\nI'll say it again, it isn't really the fight I want and it isn't fair to a lot of other athletes......but I do understand it. \n\nI don't however really get why they are doing it at 170 again. ", 
        "I don't see how getting finished in two rounds by someone coming in on 11 days notice justifies an instant rematch...", 
        "It was competitive.   ", 
        "I might be the only one interested. Conor seemed over-confident in that fight. The taunting that led to the combo that put Conor on \"wobble street\" (cr: Brendan Schaub) shouldn't have happened. That's what over-confidence does though. No excuses for it. Could have been a very different fight if Conor kept his distance and stayed on his feet.\n\nAlso Diaz was training for an Iron Man. He wasn't sitting on his couch until 11 days prior. He *did* only have 11 days to train for a fight against *Conor* but he certainly was training before knowing of the fight. \n\nHowever if I'm Conor, I fight Frankie Edgar next and try and take Nate at UFC 205 or later", 
        "Conor beat the shit out of him in the first though", 
        "Winning one round ain't shit, you saw that.", 
        "Maybe but it shows if he had the right game plan he can beat him, Conor even said after he was gassed in the 2nd because he was throwing everything behind those shots in the first but with Nate's boxing ability he was able to roll with the punches and asorb maybe 50% of the power ", 
        "At the same time Nate had little to no\npreparation.\n\n We don't know if conor would have won the first round had he not overexerted himself. The rematch there will be no excuses for conor if he loses.\n\nWill be kinda interesting what will happen, though I'd rather see different fights for both", 
        "I agree, if it was a closely contested decision I could understand them making this fight but it wasn't. Diaz finished McGregor plain and simple. As Urijah Faber would put it, McGregor would be dead now if it wasn't for the referee. ", 
        "You guys need to stop questioning the merit of this fight and see it for what it is. This is the money fight and additionally if McGregor can win the rematch the ufc get a reinvigorated cash cow with the monkey that is the  Diaz loss off his back.", 
        "Here's the relevant part of the article to answer your question:\n\n\"The fight, which was put together on just 11 days notice after McGregor's original opponent Rafael dos Anjos withdrew due to a foot injury, was a smashing business success for the UFC. It easily eclipsed one million pay-per-view buys and was the third-highest gate in the organization's history.\"", 
        "Now I really hope he lose the rematch. Just to spite Mr. White.\n\nI can't believe it's happening. I hope it's false. Not only does this makes 0 sense, but Conor is the featherweight champion. He has to defend the belt.", 
        "Money", 
        "$$$$$$$$$", 
        "I have the sneaking suspicion that maybe the UFC wants to make Nate their golden boy now", 
        "[Jesus, can you imagine the shit show if full camp Nate puts Conor away in the first?](http://i.imgur.com/tlrh1cO.jpg) I'm all for ego stroking but come on man, the pro to con ratio isn't good here.", 
        "You must not understand how money works my friend! ", 
        "right? Imagine if the exact opposite and conor finished him. Think there's any chance of a rematch for diaz?", 
        "At the end of the day Conor also only had 11 days notice. I think Conor learned more from that fight than Nate did and I'd favour Conor in a rematch. \n\n", 
        "He could say he wasn't preparing for Nate's style. Also Conor winning would basically put him back where he was before the loss and the loss could be tossed up as a fluke. This would be the best case scenario for his image when it comes to casual fans, and this is probably what most casual fans want to see. Not saying I agree with it, I think he should defend 145, but this feels like the best long-term business decision imo. (If he wins of course)", 
        "Dolla dolla bill$ im sure nate aint complaining", 
        "Nate is gonna Milk this one ..", 
        "He'd probably made less than a million in his entire career. If this goes ahead he could make $10m in two fights with Conor. ", 
        "Exactly. I hope Nate just demands double or more of what he got last time. Then takes a dive to set up the trilogy. ", 
        "I agree, but since Conor is Dana's boy, he gets what he wants.", 
        "Why do people always throw Dana's name in to these and no one else? It is Lorenzo and Franks company and Joe Silva is the match maker. ", 
        "Even if McGregor wins it doesn't change anything. No exchange of belts, just another mark on their records. ", 
        "Yes, we know.", 
        "> Conor is Dana's boy\n\nHe's Dana's boy because he's their cash cow. ", 
        "Really? Get out!", 
        "I also think Conor is fucking up by \"wanting this\" - I love the guy but he's going to lose again.  Maybe just in the 3rd or 4th this time.", 
        "He has said he wants to make a bunch of money fast and quit, maybe thats his angle", 
        "Ego is getting the best of him. I'm actually not surprised he is asking for it even though i think he loses again.", 
        "Maybe he really is trying to just maximize cash flow for the next year or two and then peace out.", 
        "Ah, the Bob Sapp approach to retirement.", 
        "That's certainly possible.", 
        "I hope it backfires big time and Diaz somehow knocks him out in the first exchange. Oh god would that be glorious. ", 
        "I wouldnt be surprised mother fucker. ", 
        "Nate would end that piece of shit for good like that, god i hope this happens, fuck that dana and fuck this organization.", 
        "As Nate is walking back stage he feels a prick from an audience member hitting him, he goes to dressing room and gets tested and test positive for roids. That's the only way Dana can save Conor if diaz wins.", 
        "http://imgur.com/t/randy_marsh/sMOsgCA", 
        "As a Conor fan, totally agree.\n\nBizarre matchmaking.", 
        "Money combined with wanting to make UFC 200 the biggest event in their history. This match sells better than anything else going. ", 
        "Diaz concussed him at 196, there is a high risk Conor hasn't recovered at 200, so I think he will be rocked more easily this time. Diaz on the other hand, will have a full camp and probably be **shredded** this time around. Not to mention all the shittalking ammunition he will posess in the lead-up.", 
        "I wonder if Conor will fight differently since he knows Nate can KO him.", 
        "why wouldnt it? the weight suits nate more and he'll have a full camp so this should be hilarious.", 
        "this. the possibility of this happening is too real. Conor can blame the first loss on the weight increase. why the fuck would you want to tarnish youre biggest star with a potentially unnecessary second loss", 
        "The 2nd loss in a row isn't whats gonna fuck em, it's the 3rd loss to Frankie.", 
        "exactly, either way why expose him more than necessary", 
        "That would be fucking awesome. ", 
        "I wouldnt be surprised mother fucker. ", 
        "I actually would. That's not the typical Diaz m.o. ", 
        "Boo", 
        "[I was saying \"Boo-urns\"](https://frinkiac.com/meme/S06E18/1051599.jpg?b64lines=IGFyZSB5b3Ugc2F5aW5nICJib28iIG9yCiAiYnV1LXVybnM_IiBhbGw6IEJvbyEh)", 
        "[Boo Dana Testaburger, Boo!] (http://40.media.tumblr.com/6b306f70c5a34a4bee522c9e5ea56f43/tumblr_niafwh64sh1rlo1q2o1_1280.jpg)", 
        "Conor really needs to let go of his ego. He's the featherweight champion and he needs to defend that belt. ", 
        "Thing is, Conor has to practically kill himself to make that weight. After the Aldo fight Conor's coach said he didn't want him to fight at featherweight ever again. The plan was to win the lightweight title immediately so that he could say he is a two title holder, but Dos Failjos got injured (still convinced that was sabotage) and threw a monkey wrench into the whole thing. I'm not sure we'll ever see Conor fight at featherweight again. Maybe one more time after he wins the lightweight title. The UFC doesn't give a cuck about weight classes, they're just trying to make that paper.", 
        "> Maybe one more time after he wins the lightweight title. \n\nYou know who would be a great lightweight to go through to get the title shot? Nate Diaz.", 
        "This is what delusion looks like", 
        "\"Maybe one more time after he wins the lightweight title\"\n\nloooooooooooooooooooooooooooooool", 
        "Maybe one more time *IF* he wins the lightweight title, more accurately. Does anyone really think Conor is going to go back to starving himself and fighting midgets after what just happened with Diaz?? His ego won't allow it.", 
        "> Conor really needs to let go of his ego.\n\nWhy? His ego is what drives his success. If anything, he needs *more* ego.\n\n> He's the featherweight champion and he needs to defend that belt\n\nHe will, but it's not as glamorous as the bigger divisions. He should kick heavier asses, and then return to FW. ", 
        "Telling a warrior to let go of his ego is like telling a comedian to let go of his sense of humor..", 
        "Nothing to do with ego. He is scared of Frankie. This would prove it.", 
        "Will never happen. Even if he gets beat again he'll get another rematch", 
        "Needs a good shroom trip.", 
        "He definitely doesn't \"need\" to.", 
        "That's got to be it right? There's no upside for Conor to fight Nate. At this point he might as well fight Joe Duffy.", 
        "He's said right from the start he mainly just cares about money.\n\nThis is the money fight, still.  ", 
        "This is what almost nobody here seems to understand. This is not about honor, legacy or any belt. It's about egos and money.", 
        "But it would further diminish Conor's marketability if he loses.  Granted, Conor will only have tough fights in the near future so there's always a risk of losing, but losing to the same guy twice in a row would be especially bad...  Then again, avenging that loss would be especially good.\n\nI guess the bottom line is that the UFC understands what they're doing from a financial perspective much better than the fans.  Nobody will want to miss this fight.", 
        "If Conor loses again, he will be in the same position as he is. The Conor v edgar/aldo fight will sell the same either way.\n", 
        "Will non-irish McGregor cans stick around if he loses back to back though? Team Rousey is much smaller than it used to be and she only lost once. ", 
        "Well many said his popularity would go down after he lost diaz the first time, and if anything he is more popular now. People have short memories, if he loses again, people will be hyped by the time he is in a featherweight title fight", 
        "He is not more popular now. I used to hear random people bring up his name. Now I don't hear any chatter around me. He'll lose the casual, non-Irish, fans if he loses again. The draw won't be there any more.", 
        "No wau. Losing twice in a row is pathetic for some superstar. He will lose all his hype.", 
        "I seriously just had to check my calendar to make sure it wasn't April Fool's Day. Nope, still March. This is some bull shit.", 
        "I'm not surprised mother fucker.\n\nedit: eghkay", 
        "WHY?", 
        "Because Conor can't stand the loss and wants a rematch. And it is Conor. ", 
        "$$$$$", 
        "Yeah I was going to buy UFC 200 for sure but now it seems I'll have to find another way to watch it...", 
        "Oh yeah. I forgot. ", 
        "Whether this is happening or not, why are they planning it for Welterweight?\n\nLast time they fought at 170lbs because of the short notice, but surely if they're going to do this again it makes sense for them both to fight at Lightweight.", 
        "Should be obvious why. It provides a convenient excuse to fall back on. Look at how readily people accepted the \"Conor is jumped up two weight classes\" narrative. Losing to Nate again at 155 would deal the McGregor brand a catastrophic blow but losing to him at 170 is a slightly different story. ", 
        "Because if Conor defeat Diaz on welterweight haters gonna say he won because of the weight cut", 
        "Honestly, it's probably a matter of perception and creating a narrative that makes Conor look better.  To the masses, Conor's a featherweight that was beaten by a welterweight.  Now if he was to win, they can claim that Conor made a 2 weightclass jump and got a win against a welterweight.\n\nWhereas the reality is Conor is essentially a lightweight and so is Nate.  But the UFC can't have McGregor losing to a guy in his weightclass on 11 days notice.", 
        "Because Connor is salty about his loss and wants to \"correct\" it like rewinding time. ", 
        "I speculate it's because Conor can't make it to 145, and needs time to see how well he can cut to 55 with his new weight/mass.  Making any fight but a 145 title defense smells to me that Conor can't make 145 anymore.  I don't understand why you would let a division Champ exit the division for 2 fights, especially after losing the first.  Only thing I can think of is the UFC is trying to screw Aldo and Frankie in favor of Conor and give Conor anything he wants, or he can't make 145 and they will make him vacate the belt and have Aldo and Frankie fight for a vacant belt.  It just makes no sense to hold a division up at the top that JUST got it's 2nd Champ ever", 
        "I can totally imagine him not making 145 anymore. But if he vacates the title and loses to Nate a 2nd time his \"brand\" is suddenly worth a whole lot less. ", 
        "I see the UFC makes this fight, then in a few weeks they announce he is vacating it to go after money fights or a different division, then they will announce Frankie and Aldo.  Then suddenly we get a Mac Diaz fight again, will get a new 145 champ and we all get to see the 4 guys in question (which we all want to see fight) on the same card.\n\nI think the decision was already made to have Conor vacate (if not, it makes no sense to not have him defend his belt and have ufc 200 be a night of champions), and now comes the slow play of building the card and both fights.  ", 
        "If he loses again, I'm gonna wager he's in danger of an Ahab/White Whale situation. Sometimes it's better to know when you're outmatched. ", 
        "Indeed, sometimes you bite of more than you can chew.", 
        "I mean that's pure speculation if we're honest, but hypothetically surely he cares about beating Diaz more than fighting at \"welterweight\". Especially when the 196 bout was really just two lightweight fighters not dehydrating themselves.", 
        "He doesn't want the casuals to know Nate is a lightweight.", 
        "Sure it's speculation, the whole thing is pretty much speculation. But the only plausible reason seems to be recreating the last fight to set things \"right\" and eliminating excuses. ", 
        "Conor better give up the 145 belt then or the ufc is on complete bullshit ", 
        "Why? I think Conor deserves some leeway because of his skill and achievements. ", 
        "This hurts the legitimacy of the sport more than anything else, this rematch is pure bs. ", 
        "funny people like you complain. Conor won the belt like 3 months ago.  Aldo didnt fight for over a year and no one complained. That said, I think he should have to defend it within the next 6 months.", 
        "Yeah but he didn't fight twice in other divisions, I'm all for taking time off if needed but he's fighting other dudes while people in 145 are just stuck waiting", 
        "Just to play Devils advocate, he could fight Nate at UFC 200, fight Aldo/Edgar by October at the rate he said he wants to then defend again if he wins for Christmas and he'd still be as active as any other champ.", 
        "He won the title in December 2015, to only defend in Oct 2016 and MAYBE December 2016 is not a good title defense rate IMO. ", 
        "Or he could get knocked out and not fight again this year. And even if he could defend his belt then, he could have defended it against Frankie/Aldo/Holloway in that time. Instead of pissing about at welterweight fighting a mid-ranked lightweight twice.", 
        "Either he really doesn't want to make the cut again/is dodging Frankie or the UFC are shit outta ideas on fights for 200.", 
        "Probably a little bit of all of those.", 
        "How could it possibly be the latter when there are many better ideas than Nate v McGoof 2.", 
        "Or he is just interested in making the most money he can per fight. Conor reportedly made $12m+ for the first Nate fight, he could make a few million more than that in a rematch. He's always said he's about the money.", 
        "$12m?! Did Anderson even make that much, or am I just hella not informed?", 
        "Sure that could be true, but what's better, 3 fights that sell a million PPV buys where he wins or 1 more fight where it sells 1.5 but he loses again and his drawing power takes a nosedive straight after it?\n\nThere's no way this is the best fight the UFC can come up with for Conor, surely not.", 
        "His drawing power won't take a nose-dive though.\n\nIf he loses again to Nate nothing changes.  Still lost to Nate.  Still has the 145 pound belt.  No different than today except another $10M payday.\n\nIf he loses to Frankie everything changes.  Still lost to Nate.  Won't get a rematch with him.  No 145 pound belt.  Very different than today.\n\nThe Nate fight is cash grab that really changes nothing if he loses, but it again changes everything if he wins.\n\nI think people are over-stating how badly a second loss to Nate matters.  Why?  What's different?  If a guy can beat you once he can beat you twice.  That doesn't mean you're worse now than when he only beat you once.", 
        "They have been complete bullshit for a very longtime now", 
        "Chael Sonnen got a title shot in weight class he never fought in, in the ufc, coming off a loss. The UFC does what people will pay the most to see.\n\nEdit:Yes i know he fought at LHW in the WEC just didnt realize he fought 1 time at LHW back at UFC 55 then went down to middleweight. He didnt have a UFC LHW win before getting a title shot. The narrative that he \"was the only one to step up\" is probably not true but sure does sell fights. Then Jones fought Vitor before Jones and Chael did TUF. Still no reason to give the Bad Guy a title shot coming off a title loss a weight class down. Chael was a money fight, cause he moved the needle. That and that alone is why he got a crack at Jones.", 
        "Chael was actually a LHW for most of his career, and his first stint in the UFC. He was just never a very good LHW. He started winning when he moved down to MW.", 
        "Pretty sure Chael fought at light heavy in wec", 
        "But remember Chael got the fight because nobody wanted to fight Jon Jones and the whole card 151 card was shit canned.", 
        "Chael fought at lhw before he went to middleweight in wec", 
        "Fun fact: Chael actually fought in the UFC at 205 before his stint in the WEC at 185. Fought Trevor Prangley and Babalu before he got cut IIRC", 
        "Prangley was at mw but Babalu slapped a triangle on him at 205. ", 
        "Don't forget the UFC giving title shots for winning TUF.  It may create memorable moments, but it's more spectacle then sport at that point.", 
        "Chael was a short notice replacement. This is miles beyond that in retardation.", 
        "No they did a whole season of TUF. He was supposed to be a short notice replacement. Then they used TUF to build it up.", 
        "But Chael was given the fight on short notice because he was the only one who said yes, then Jones backed out and said he wanted more time to prepare, which led to the TUF season. That's on the champ.  ", 
        "He fought Vitor in between the time chael accepted a short notice fight and TUF. Sorry there is no way to justify Chael being in there with Jon Jones ever and the fight showed. For the record i love the gangster from west lynn.", 
        ">Chael Sonnen....loss\n\nI don't comprehend.", 
        "Yeah what does he mean?\n\nLoss? Chael? Did you mean undefeated, undisputed, p4p King?", 
        "he didn't know the rules, he thought that tapping meant that you just lost the round", 
        "Nick  got one off a loss, as did Miesha", 
        "Gus got one after a former welterweight beat the shit out of him ", 
        "Zingano got injured I thought?", 
        "we had 4 guys get title shots coming off losses in 2013.", 
        "Frankie Edgar did too. In a weight class he never fought in just like Sonnen. ", 
        "\"Former champ, razor thin losses\"  is  a better claim than \"talks goodly on the mic \" IMO", 
        "As did frankie, off back to back losses....of course i thought frankie won all 3 of those fights and is the current 2 div champ.....but im super biased ", 
        "I thought he won both Bendo fights but the Aldo one was a pretty clear cut 3-2 loss IMO", 
        "You're not alone. Those fights were crazy close.", 
        "Frankie said he was ready to fight at UFC 200 https://twitter.com/SBNLukeThomas/status/710861274071113729", 
        "When is he NOT ready to fight tbh, he's always in amazing shape.", 
        "...When they offered him Conor at 196?", 
        "If Conor won't do it, how about Frankie vs. Cruz at 135?  ", 
        "At WW again though? Pointless rematch", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "If they are having the rematch at WW the sole reason is because they can use the two weight classes angle still.", 
        "brah read", 
        "I have become the person I hate the most. I didn't read the article. My apologies. ", 
        "Article says WW rematch", 
        "If he loses again, Dana can spin it that he lost at welterweight. So it doesn't hurt his chances at big fights at LW to the casual fans.", 
        "It's for the highly coveted conorweight title.", 
        "I think this makes sense monetarily and that's why they're doing it. We've seen the massive media attention 196 got post fight. Everybody knows Nate's name now. The casuals are where the money is. They're going to make this a king taking revenge thing probably.\n\nHaving said that I think the majority of us would have wanted Aldo or Edgar. This is shit man. Makes a mockery of the belts.", 
        "> I think this makes sense monetarily\n\nMaybe but it's still a sport. Imagine if the olympics applied the same policy... \n", 
        "How can you say 'the majority' wanted Aldo or Edgar after saying it makes sense monetarily???  The big money fight is the rematch and we all know it. Why? Cause 'the majority' are willing to shell out $$$ to watch it...not Aldo or Edgar.\n\nStop putting 'the casuals' down like fools. Sports grow and that's good. Wanting to watch revenge is legit and has been done in boxing forever.", 
        "Hmm. You actually got me there with basic logic. You're completely correct actually. The majority will want to watch that. However, the casuals are absolute fools. That's why CM Punk is fighting and will be getting paid a lot. The casuals are the morons who say \"Nate's style is terrible\". The casuals are the idiots who just want to see a stand up brawl and don't appreciate the other aspects of MMA, yelling at fighters to just stand up while being mounted. You are completely correct that the majority of people want Nate. But the majority of casuals most certainly are fools.", 
        "It makes short term sense financially, but Diaz isn't about to become another McGregor and McGregor needs to keep winning to stay financially viable long term.\n\nThis is like cashing in your pension to visit an expensive hooker one time.", 
        "> Makes a mockery of the belts.\n\nThat's the kicker right there.  The FW division has a stink of irrelevancy about it since Conor won the belt, and I say that as a fan of his.", 
        "We want Aldo vs McGregor 2 and Dos Anjos vs Diaz 2.\n\nEdgar #bigsorry", 
        "Haha I agree with you but a lot of people want mcg edgar", 
        "Does anyone honestly think that the casuals won't tune in to McGregor regardless? I really don't think it matters who he fights, the hype will be big anyway. Any McGregor fight makes sense monetarily, this fight in particular is idiotic. ", 
        "Eh it will make way more money. Conor's gonna fight the guy he lost to? It will make more money than Aldo the guy he knocked out in 13 seconds or Edgar the guy that no one knows. I still think it's not the fight to make since if Conor loses he is gonna lose sooooo much star power.", 
        "NO one knows edgar? Come on man, are you trying to sound stupid?", 
        "Anyone who doesn't know Edgar doesn't care about MMA and we shouldn't be pandering to them anyways.", 
        "Guess what the people who \"care\" about MMA are probably within the 10% of people who actually buy the thing. Frankie wasn't a champ for the past few years so I doubt any new fans really know much about him at all. Of course hardcore fans know Frankie, but let's be honest the real money is in the casual new fans who come with McGregor.", 
        "You're implying 90 percent of people who order a UFC PPV have no idea who Frankie Edgar is? You're wildly misinformed my friend.", 
        "who order a mcgregor ppv? I don't think i'm that far off.", 
        "UFC 66 did over a million buys. I'd say you're way off base.", 
        "This is true. *But*, casuals will tune in for a rematch between Conor and the guy who beat him even more than they would have tuned in for Conor fighting Jose, the 6 year champ that he dethroned. I think the UFC wants this card to beat UFC 100's numbers so they are going to build it in a way to take the most advantage of the casuals as possible. Don't be surprised if Tate-Rousey III is announced in the coming weeks.", 
        "Well Tate-Rousey III makes some sense as a match up. A rematch between Conor and Nate makes literally no sense. I don't even know why it would make more money. I honestly believe (and feel free to disagree) that the casual who would tune in for a McGregor-Diaz rematch would *also* tune in for any other McGregor fight. McGregor just has to spout some lines about reminding the featherweight division who's king, and his opponent says something about how he's all hype, got beat by a guy rolling off the couch - boom, hype video made, gone viral, casuals sold.", 
        "Well I'm not sure of how much different the numbers will be, but I do think that this Diaz fight will garner more interest than any other fight. Diaz beat him by rocking him multiple times and tapping him. So now it's a comeback story, Conor's the underdog for once (edit: I said for once like he'd never been an underdog, which is obviously untrue, but he hasn't been viewed as an underdog since beating Mendes, and the narrative has never really been around his underdoggedness). Not to mention Diaz is a far bigger name now than he was before 196 and that one still hit 1.5 mil. On top of that they will have a 4-5 month lead up involving more and more trash talk (which alone will be very interesting given the results of their first matchup and Conor's typical narrative when trash talking). So yeah, I think this is actually the biggest money fight they could make, however, I agree that they could have made McGregor-Holloway for the FW belt and it would have still done well.", 
        "They'll definitely have more eyeballs if Nate is the opponent. We would all love to watch GSP fight again right? He is an amazing draw. Now think if his opponent was a star too, such as Rory. The numbers would be even higher.", 
        "Not if he keeps  losing..  which  he might if he keeps fighting the guy who beat  him already. ", 
        "> Not if he keeps losing\n\nThat didn't happen with Chael, he only got bigger despite a series of losses. He would have been bigger with wins but his name still grew and people kept watching. ", 
        "> he only got bigger despite a series of losses\n\nDid he, though? I know there was a ton of hype for the second Silva fight, but I don't remember him getting more popular after that, and definitely not after he got crushed by Jones.", 
        "downvoted for logic lol i love it", 
        "I don't like this at all.  If McGregor can make 145 one more time, do the Edgar fight along with RDA or Lawler defending their belt.", 
        "So dumb. Frankie is about to go full Chris Benoit on Dana. ", 
        "So what you're saying is, Frankie is scheduled to beat CM Punk at UFC 200?", 
        "Damn that comment got dark. ", 
        "so dark it makes vantablack look like a discoball. ", 
        "\"The dogs are in the enclosed pool area. Garage side door is open\"", 
        "I feel so terrible about this comment sending me into hysterics. Murder-suicide is funny - who knew!", 
        "starting to get the sense that UFC 200 won't be quite as special as we hoped ", 
        "Special for Dana.", 
        "Absolutely fucking ridiculous. Hope Nate wins again in all honesty.", 
        "I hope Nate beats the fucking brakes off this crazy train. Fuck it. ", 
        "Um,  Why?\n\nWhy would they want Conor to be on a two fight losing streak?", 
        "Conor will learn his lesson from that fight and study Nate religiously and be prepared. This time he will finish Nate.", 
        "I'll enjoy watching him try if thats the fight they make.   But I'll be disappointed he isn't defending his belt.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "thats not true ...", 
        "No, just no...", 
        "Well Conor obviously feels like he can win a rematch. The fight wasn't a complete demolition like Holm-Rousey. ", 
        "Two fight losing steak******* ", 
        "I wouldn't assume that. He has a clear case for winning the rematch with a few adjustments.", 
        "Would you care to explain what adjustments he can make?\n\nThe only reason he won round 1 is because he was uber aggressive landing bigger shots.   \n\nSo the \"be more efficient\" strategy isn't really that simple.   Is he going to drastically improve his Cardio in 3.5 months?   Doubtful.  \n\nI dont see it,  but I'd be interested in hearing differing opinions.   Believe me,  if this is the fight we are getting,  I'd like some reason to believe the 2nd fight would go down differently.", 
        "Yeah don't get me wrong nate is seriously a good fighter and is tough as hell but it's stupid to assume conor has absolutely no chance of winning a rematch against hin", 
        "He has a chance,  I just dont see it being that great.   What made him successful in Round 1 was at the expense of his energy.   Even if he paces himself better he is still going to be on the end of Diaz' punches while not doing as much Damage as he did in fight 1.\n\nI can see it lasting a little longer with the right gameplan, however with ultimately the same result.   \n\nConor's best shot is getting a finish Early in the fight.   I thought going into the first one that Conor would have to do it in the first two rounds,  and it didnt even take Nate that long.   I completely overestimated Conor's cardio.   \n\nMaybe if its 3 rounds.\n\n", 
        "I feel like if he can not overextend on his punches and be more conservative with his striking and Incorporate kicks to the body and legs he can beat Nate. Conor is an inch taller than RDA and look what RDA did to nate with that game plan ", 
        "You have made some valid points that I do not disagree with,  but Conor does not present the threat of a takedown with his pressure the way RDA was.\n\nSort of like GSP.   He was a decent striker sure,  but he excelled so much because everyone was scared to death of the take down.\n\nI dont see Conor posing that same threat,  Nate will fire right back.   That is sort of what makes a Diaz brother so dangerous,  they are not afraid to get hit.   They will take a punch to land one.   Their Chins and Cardio are rarely ever bested.\n\nBut I see your point,  but I still think Nate is too tough, and too willing to go shot for shot where his chin and cardio will always win.   \n\nDont get me wrong,   if thats the fight I'm going to enjoy it,  I'm a fight junkie and Conor is one of the most exciting fighters in the world.   I really want him to bounce back,  I just prefer it to not be at Nates expense.", 
        "Losing to Aldo or Edgar would also put him on a two-fight losing streak.  Don't underestimate those guys.  Any of those three fights would be difficult but winnable for Conor.", 
        "I'm not.  I'm just stating I dont see any difference in the outcome with Diaz.\n\nMatchups/Styles yada yada.   I think Conor has a better shot at beating Aldo or Edgar than he does against Nate.", 
        "No! Just no! Seriously... fuck THAT!", 
        "I saw that check and was like.... I want more of that. -Nate Diaz", 
        "I say this as a massive McGregor fan, if he does this fight make him vacate the belt. If he only wants big money fights, fine. But guys like edgar need to be able to contest for the title, I was OK with the idea of rda followed by edgar at 200 but frankie really needs to get his shot now ", 
        "After Conor loses again....\n\n\"What's Conor McGregor doing in the Impact Zone???\"", 
        "Clearly the WWE brings him in as Sheamus's long lost brother Angus.", 
        "Teaming up with Bobby Lashley to wrestle Sharkboy and Billy Gunn.", 
        "*Gregor McConor", 
        "fuck this fight and everything about it", 
        "Ariel Helwani put this little nugget out there last week and something about it totally stuck with me when he said it, now it's gaining traction.\n\nI understand why they might do that fight, but I don't think I want to see it, I don't think the the hardcores want to see it and I don't think the UFC **really** want to see it either because of the featherweight belt.\n\nIt would be much better if they both went had a couple more fights then came back to that fight later on.\n\nThat said if they do go down this route, I don't think the strip Conor, instead, I would make it Aldo/Edgar for an interim title, then you have an incredible story line along side this hype machine fight that sets up and sells the next McGregor fight because it develops as the card happens.\n\nTotally against it though, I don't think Conor can radically change to win that fight in 3 months. Maybe in a year or two, but 3 months it's more than likely just going to be a repeat.", 
        "It's win/win for Nate (loss sets up trilogy, win solidifies his rep further), and it's big-win/little-loss for Conor compared to other options.  If Conor fights at 145 a win is no big deal and a loss is a HUGE negative.  Losing again against Nate is a minor loss, but the trade of is that a win is HUGE in reestablishing options for him.", 
        "So.... 2 fights without defending his belt? Seems fishy.", 
        "yeah, this way if he loses he can still keep carrying that dumb belt around.", 
        "If they make this fight then the UFC has officially jumped the shark into absurd clown status. \n\nI am hoping that this is just internet bs, but Ariel doesn't usually do that. Good fucking grief.", 
        "> absurd clown status\n\nThat's a great description.  ", 
        "Whilst I agree that this is ridiculous, Bellator is the clown of mma promotions.", 
        "Please no. ", 
        "For fucks' sake can't he defend his belt already?", 
        "The 'C' in UFC really does stand for Conor...\n\nWhy does he get to skip out on defending his title when both Aldo and Frankie are ready? ", 
        "becuase dude he wants a fucking rematch arnt you happy you are a nate fan right dont u want him to be rich", 
        "I want fights that make sense. This doesn't", 
        "Fuck that shit, no one wants to see it. Diaz won like a true Ninja shit. Time to move on. Go defend your belt coz if you lose to Diaz again you are truly fukkkkked. As much as I like Connor and all the good things he has done for MMA.", 
        "You must be from Stockton.", 
        "Conor gets what Conor wants. You got beat by a guy on an 11 day camp, Conor, just go back to featherweight. Terrible idea.", 
        "Will he quit when he loses again? Because he will lose again and i cant see him come back from a loss to the same guy.", 
        "I bet his accountant is like \"This might be the greatest idea anyone's ever had.  What an amazing, amazing idea.\"", 
        "Im glad. Diaz will beat him again and the Conor show will be over", 
        "naw they'll have connor fight carlos condit at middlweight after that", 
        "You shouldn't be glad about that. Love him or hate him, Conor is great for the sport. Somebody gotta pay dem bills. ", 
        "> the Conor show will be over\n\nFor who?  He's got a massive following.", 
        "Massive because they don't cut weight, amirite?", 
        "Massive followings tend to dissipate after 2 defeats back-to-back.", 
        "The Irish fan base he has won't be going anywhere man.  They follow their own through thick and thin.  Losing some casuals might be nice though!", 
        "The Irish are fine, but the casuals who talk out of their asses can go. I don't mind the casuals who aren't spewing nonsense.", 
        "Losing streaks make fans run.  2 loses where all his specific shit talking back fires as hard as it can.  People will stop buying into his talk when he can't back it up.  No different than Cam Newton.  Dude essentially talked shit all season (in a much more polite way than Conor of course), but the moment he pussied up and didn't go for his own fumble, no one cared about his talk anymore because he didn't leave it on the field.  I can see something simular happening to Conor if he loses back to back.\n\nConor is popular because he talks and backs it up.  If he talks and doesn't back it up again, he is just a regular shit talking schmuck like a lot of fighters and he will slowly fall back to the pack with everyone else.  \n\n", 
        "This is a bad decision and people will see right through it.  The public doesn't have much interest in the rematch right now. There is nothing intriguing about this fight.  Conor doesn't seem unbeatable anymore, since he got beaten soundly before.  If Conor loses this one, his stock will drop even further. \n\n\n\nThis is a poor financial decision by the UFC.  I suspect this fight will never happen, they're just using the spike of popularity of Diaz for some cheap publicity for UFC 200.  ", 
        "I think it's a bigger fight than the first one. People didn't think Nate had much of a chance. Now they do. And it's not like McGregor did terribly - he won the first and was winning the 2nd up until he got caught by the 1-2. It's not inconceivable that he could beat Nate given a full camp to train for him and come up with a game plan. ", 
        "So what you're saying is he didn't do terribly until he did terribly. ", 
        "Don't be a smartass...", 
        "Ah, but I'm DEFINITELY going to watch it for a hopeful Nate Diaz win. UFC accountants win either way. As a fan, I'm fucking pissed.", 
        "I'm not even excited for UFC200 anymore if this shit goes through", 
        "What the fuck? Guess he's relinquishing his 145 belt. Aldo vs Edgar co-main maybe?", 
        "> Guess he's relinquishing his 145 belt\n\nThere's no way that's happening. It's the UFC, get real. They wil not strip Conor McGregor of his championship.", 
        "You may want to get real yourself.  Conor is noticeably bigger than his 145 fights.  It's very, very possible he can't make 145 anymore.  This fight very well may be talked about at 170 because Conor needs time to see how well he can cut now.  Rumor is Conor walks around at 175 now, that is about a 30 pound weight cut, that is utterly brutal.  Don't be shocked if this fight is made, in a few weeks we get Aldo v Frankie for a vacant belt.  Conor can't defend a belt for a weight he can't make.  And he HAS TO get all the way to 145, doesn't get that extra pound when holding a belt", 
        "That's the only way this makes any fucking sense. ", 
        "Total douche canoe. \"Here guys, squabble over it. I'm bored.\" Send Conor on a fucking safari then.", 
        "ah thats good keep holding up an entire division for this guy.  UFC is a joke if this true", 
        "Does anybody want this? I can't see the result being any different this soon. ", 
        "I can't see them start trash talking again and hype this rematch as much as the original fight. \n\nWhy not have RDA vs Diaz and Conor vs Aldo/Edgar on the same card? ", 
        "I'm more excited for the pre-fight pressers and interviews than the rematch.", 
        "everyone wants this its the biggest money fight", 
        "Obviously not everyone wants this", 
        "I can definitely see Conor winning, but I really don't care to see a rematch.", 
        "I wonder what the odds will be like this time around.\n\nWrite it down: McGregor will still amazingly be the favorite", 
        "i totally could see the result being different thats the fun thing about fighting.\n\nbut i cant imagine anyone (other than the mcgregor diehards/irish fans) wanting this rematch this soon", 
        "I don't want this. Maybe Conor fans want it. I like to see Diaz shine. I hope he wins the rematch but if he doesn't ill be sad because that means no title shot for Diaz ", 
        "Also, if Nate were to lose Dana would make sure the rubber match NEVER happens.", 
        "Man, I fucking hate this comment. But I've upvoted for truth. ", 
        "Full camp Diaz would beat him worse.", 
        "Also, what the hell kind of smack talk is Conor going to be able to give Nate in the build up? \n\nLiterally none. He got whooped by Nate when he only had 11 days notice.. \n\n", 
        "\"Imma come in der and beat your ass dis time fooker.  I'm going ta budget my energy dis time and slowly break ya and knock you da fook out in the 4th round. I predict deez tings\"\n\n\"I'll train 12 days this time then.  I see you still carry around your midget fighting belt that you don't care about you roided mother fucker\"", 
        "All the shit you fucking fans gave Aldo for getting injured and only fighting twice a year ATLEAST HE FUCKING STAYED IN HIS WEIGHT DIVISION AND DEFENDED THE FUCKING BELT.\n\nThey better hurry up and make a McGregor division belt because at this point nothing else matters.  \n\nAlso i swear i read a post saying Dana and co were looking to give the fans what they want... how the fuck did they get Nate Diaz out of Aldo/Edgar.. fucking goofs...", 
        ">ATLEAST HE FUCKING STAYED IN HIS WEIGHT DIVISION AND DEFENDED THE FUCKING BELT.\n\nI'd rather see the champ fight in other divisions than sit on his ass like Aldo did.", 
        "I'd rather see the champ fight at his weight division than play touch butt in the park with the dork with the ponytail.", 
        "I want to see the fighters in the ring as much as they can while staying healthy. I don't care what weight class.", 
        "Why the fuck does it matter why they're not defending the belt as long as they aren't doing it?\n\nIf McGregor wants to fuck about a bit let him, as long as he does defend it eventually it's fine. We get to see the fights he's in anyway and he'll be fighting plenty.    \nNo point in scheduling anything with Aldo in it for 200 anyway since there's a fifty percent chance he pulls out.", 
        "The words were actually \"mcgregor vs Edgar/Aldo (forgot which he said, i think it was edgar) is what the fans want to see.\n\n\n\nSo fuck all that and lets do a random rematch in a weight class neither fighter fights in", 
        "Make 'em all go bantamweight, see what is left.", 
        "Well, money talks... Edgar vs McGregor is the fight I want, but this is the fight that can break records they want on UFC 200. And if it happens... I guess maybe we have more interviews on The Money Channel to look forward to.", 
        "It's fucking sad that \"makes money\" is spoken about in direct opposition to what the fans want. You'd *think* they'd be making money by being aligned with true fans, because WE'D BE PAYING THEM.\n\nGuys, lets keep talking about this, because the whole reason this shitmonster exists the way it does is because the majority of people/fans jumping on the hypetrains aren't sophisticated enough in their understanding and principle of the sport. \n\nFor wanting to legitimize the sport, the UFC sure stocks up on clown shoes.", 
        "Conor would pull in viewers if he fought a mannequin.  They don't need an unjustified rematch to break records at UFC 200.", 
        "So you lose to an unprepared fighter who was getting drunk on a boat in Mexico two weeks before the fight and your response is to fight that same guy but let him have a camp and be prepared? Genius!", 
        "I think he just cannot cut the weight anymore, that is the reason", 
        "It has to be to be there's no other logical reason. Also Aldo and Frankie will probably fight for the title now.", 
        "I tend to agree. I have no idea why they are doing it at WW again though. Unless Conor felt that cutting any amount of weight greater than 10 pounds isn't worth it anymore or something. I mean I'm a proponent of making fighters fight at their natural weight, but that only works well if everyone agrees to it. If this is set at WW Diaz is going to be weighing 185-190 by fight time and Conor will weigh 175ish.", 
        "it's absolutly idiotic  for connor to make it at welterweight , conor was eating a lot & he didn't make 170  & diaz cuts horribly for 155 sometimes that it ruins his fights , i don't know what this  maniac is trying to prove.\n\nhe got absolutely enormous for that weight wrecking his cardio (that's assuming he does have a good one -holloway- )& got beat up by the guy who have the strongest jaw of any of his previous opponent .\n\nhe could win the fight with some leg kicks & by being smarter but he's absolutely stacking the cards  against himself for a serious downfall", 
        "That's fucking stupid, I was excited for Nate v Conor the first time but there is no reason why there should be a second time yet. I feel bad for the people at featherweight, give them a shot or make Conor vacate the belt. This is literally the most infuriating rematch I've ever seen so far.", 
        "Would be a really poor decision from McGregor, losing back to back to the same guy kills the hype.", 
        "Hype train just derailed. Even if Conor were to win his hype is gone. Shouldn't take a lion two tries to beat a gazelle. It's sad he wants to try again. Hope the gazelle kicks his ass and doesn't get hit  ", 
        "Goddammit, no. ", 
        "LAME", 
        "lol wtf, why are they doing this shit ? ", 
        "[NO!](https://media.giphy.com/media/ToMjGpx9F5ktZw8qPUQ/giphy.gif)", 
        "Just give Frankie the fucking belt already.", 
        "The UFC is run by a bunch of goofs, give Frankie his shot already!!", 
        "BACK IN MY DAY, REMATCHES TOOK SOME GODDAMN TIME TO HAPPEN. CLASH OF THE TITANS WITH A FIELD OF BODIES BEHIND THEM. Nowadays rematches are clash of tuxedos and high heels with like, zero or one corpse behind them.\n\nTITO ORTIZ HAD TO LITERALLY BURY THE BODIES SO THE UFC HAD ROOM TO COME OVER AND SCHEDULE SOME SHIT.", 
        "Fuck this matchup. Diaz won a good fight. Both can move on, no reason to rematch.", 
        "Rematches nobody wants to see for 500, Alex.", 
        "I want to see it.\n\nAfter McGregor fights Frankie Edgar.", 
        "How about defending the belt at 145? What is up what that? If this happens, i hope Nate fucks him up even more.", 
        "Conor/Dana really doesn't want that Frankie fight huh? ", 
        "exactly... this way when Nate smokes Conor again they can just keep selling the whole \"Conor is sooo brave\" story.  Psshhh.  Conor thought he was getting a Nate Diaz that wasn't prepared and was going to look like some kind of Legend.  Instead he did get an unprepared Nate Diaz that still smoked his ass in 2 rounds.  ", 
        "Conor is an awesome fighter but anyone thinking they didn't pick Chad and Nate based on their lack of training camps is crazy. Talk about underestimating Nate", 
        "This smells like bullshit.", 
        "This makes me SO mad. What's the point of belts and ranks (as somewhat arbitrary as those ranks are) if you don't follow the system. This fight makes zero sense from a competitive sense and totally de-legitimizes belts. Go defend your belt Conor! Worry about this rematch later once you've maybe won a few more matches. Also, its just boring - that outcome was quite definitive and we JUST saw it. There are so many other intriguing fights to be made and you're gonna give us this BS matchup that has zero meaning just to assuage someone's ego? Holding up a whole division to do so? At least give up your 145 belt if you don't ever plan to actually defend it. I really really hope this stays a rumor...", 
        "How stupid. Come on Conor go back to featherweight or vacate the belt", 
        "If it's really all about the money, they should have went with Conor vs Anderson Silva at welterweight. Now that is a headliner. ", 
        "This can't be accurate. No fucking way. The only possible winner in this whole situation would be Nate because he would be cashing a fat ass cheque (win or lose).", 
        "Hopefully this is not true...not excited for this at all and I'm a Mac fan.  Had he won at UFC 196 I think another super fight would have been cool but since he lost he should have to defend his title.", 
        "ummm why??? \n\nI am so confused.", 
        "Yes, let's keep holding up FW\n\nThis has gotten ridiculous. He has to vacate. ", 
        "Most useless rematch in the history of the UFC.", 
        "What no!!! Are they really doing a rematch for his ego wtf ", 
        "\"For his ego.\"\n\n\"Biggest selling UFC ever.\"\n\nChoose the reason you think they're doing it for.", 
        "Why not both ?", 
        "Like... Serious?", 
        "Maybe they're leaking this just to see what people want to see. Wishful thinking probably. ", 
        "This is what I wanted to see, not so early but I dont really care much. Conor is one of the most active fights in UFC,  can't see why Aldo or Edgar can't wait 3 more months.", 
        "The amount of attention in this controversial thread is probably making it more interesting to them.  Controversy sells.", 
        "At welterweight ? Completly pointless.\n\nAt least make it 155, and even this is a poor matchmaking.", 
        "Surprised and disappointed. :(", 
        "He'd have to get stripped of the belt if that's the case. It's pretty selfish on his behalf and pretty disrespectful on the UFCs behalf if he fought Nate again before anyone else. Then again, he is the C in UFC. ", 
        "1) You are correct in that he *should* be stripped of the belt. \n\n2) There's no way they promote Conor's next fight without constantly calling him a champion, thus there's no way they strip him until possibly after this fight. ", 
        "Word. If they have to promote him as a champion why not run the risk of him v Edgar or Aldo? It's just about the same probability he loses to Nate. ", 
        "I really hope Ariel is just trolling us right now, because an immediate rematch between these two at UFC 200 is absolute bullshit. Conor needs to defend his belt, not his pride. What the fuck is Dana thinking?!", 
        "I am so sick of rematches. He should give up the 145 belt if this is the case. The rematch hopefully will be at 155 though; winner gets RDA. Very lackluster for 200 in my opinion.", 
        "WHAT?\n\nthis makes no fuckin' sense.", 
        "Pretty bullshit but par for the course at this point.  Should have been Nate v. RDA and Conor v. Edgar.\n\nLooks like Conor lost his McGreGOAT belt to Nate and now wants it back.", 
        "For *sure* defend your belt bro.", 
        "100%", 
        "This is so fucking stupid. Iv never been this mad about a match up rumor. Yeah, Nate best your cash cow. Fair and square. Move on, stop holding a division hostage just because your but hurt he lost ", 
        "I don't even consider mcgregor  a champion anymore, he obviously has no intention of going back to defend it. The whole plan is to hold two belts simultaneously but sorry bud that's not going to happen cause diaz will wreck u again. This time I hope nate just beats him up for awhile instead of finishing him so quickly", 
        "When Conor beats him what will your excuse be?", 
        "Not going to happen. He's not going to knock diaz out. He's not going to tap him out. And he's not going to win a decision. Well maybe he could if he just leg kicks diaz and runs away the whole fight.", 
        "\"If\" . 1-0 Diaz so far haha", 
        "More like when... rope a doping only works once.. Conor will be more cautious and beat him as easily as everyone thought he would in the first place.. Like RDA did...", 
        "Nate was injured that fight and out of shape, and still rda couldn't finish diaz. So what makes u think conor will finish a well prepared, healthy and in shape nate diaz? For me nothing. And if he does come out cautious then he's going to get lit up for 5 rounds. There's a reason nate is at the top when it comes to strikes thrown and landed. He puts a pace on you that almost no one can handle.", 
        "You can't finish someone if they won't fight... Anyone can curl up in a ball just so they don't get knocked out..\n\nWhen have we ever seen Nate do something that makes us think Conor won't beat him? Conor beat himself last fight.. that won't happen again.\n\nWhat does it matter if Nate is in shape? He could train for 2 years.. he still doesn't have any athelticism..\n\nNate has a lot of strikes because they have no power on them.. he couldn't do anything to RDA and he couldn't do anything to Conor before he gassed himself beating on Nate..", 
        "No power? But rocked conor, so I guess conor has a glass jaw haha. And ya I could see conor running away from nate the while fight.", 
        "Nate won't fight so why should Conor open himself up to attack when Nate feels like it? If Nate isn't going to fight then Conor will just pick him apart like he is trying to do with Conor..\n\nAnd yes.. Nate had no power.. he didn't do anything to him for a round and a half.. but Nate wouldn't fight back and just ran.. which tired Conor out.. and you wonder why he won't do that again?\n\nConor will just use Nate's own methods against him.. just like RDA did and destroyed him doing it..", 
        "I knew the Conor dickriding fan brigade would be back as soon as this was announced. ", 
        "I would rather see frank shamrock vs Royce again. ", 
        "This sucks.\n\n1) McGregor isn't going to shit talk,I mean how can he,he's going to make a bigger fool out of himself.\n\n2) I think we all seen that Diaz can take Conors shots.\n\n3) Edgar deserves it.\n\n4) I think Conor loses again. The McGregor show is in its way out.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Azgo5J_PW04", 
        "Whyyy. Only people calling for a rematch are Mcgregor nuthuggers and clueless mainstream media. So when Mcgregor loses again there goes his appeal. Not interested", 
        "Wow, Fuck off with this...\n\nConor vs Aldo or Frankie and RDA vs Nate is what it should be. And it so obvious that it should be this..\n\nRidiculous that a champ gets to fight two times in a row out of his division while challengers have to wait, fuck that.", 
        "\"Our cash cow lost to someone that only had 11 days notice, let's make a rematch where our cash cow is now facing the same guy but this time on a full camp\" -Dana White", 
        "fuck yeah. i want 6 months of buildup with shit talk and everything. diaz saying shit to conor like \"im the reason you getting paid now, bitch\"", 
        "Diaz doesn't say shit just to say it. He knows that's not true. ", 
        "you think that motherfucker doesn't know what a gazelle is? btw he even said he was the money fight sooo. and he would be the reason mcg is getting paid for the next fight since he whooped his ass and the rematch always sells more. ", 
        "No gazelles in Stockton. ", 
        "Well 200 is going to be in July, so less than 4 months of shit talk. \n\nStill a lot more buildup than 196. Looking forward to that.", 
        "why not let him defend the belt? get a win and get the hype train rolling again? Diaz's ground game, size, iron chin, and sneakily effective punching is too much for Mac", 
        "Conor afraid to defend his belt, lol.", 
        "> t him 3 ti\n\nyou are not afraid to defend a belt when you are planning on fighting someone who is tougher than either edgar or aldo.", 
        "If he loses to Diaz he keeps his belt, but if he loses against Aldo/Edgar he loses his belt. Also I think Frankie Edgar is a tougher fight than Diaz.", 
        "Whaat? ", 
        "But why tho", 
        "What. The. Heck! \n\nThis can't be right. ", 
        "If Nate wins again, Dana's gonna have to turn in his promoter's license. ", 
        "If Nate wins again someone is going to have to wrestle the bottle of pills and bottle of jack from Dana", 
        "No one better save Dana. Let him have his go at the bottles.\n\n", 
        "The C stands for Conor.", 
        "He's going to go on a two fight losing streak, before even attempting his first title defense. Lol, ok. He's not gonna have too much of a shit talking game leading up to a rematch. I will *definitely* watch him get worked again, even though it makes no sense.", 
        "what the fuck. ", 
        "No please", 
        "That'd be such a waste. We had the first fight and it was good. Let some fucking time pass ", 
        "They really don't care about hardcore mma fans when it comes to matchmaking. ", 
        "because we watch all ppv for free", 
        "What the fuck man, I wanted to see Aldo, then Frankie, THEN Nate or another lightweight contender, this is so dumb.", 
        "Seems like Conor is never going back to 145", 
        "No.  Please, no.\n", 
        "Yes! I get to see Conor get the Stockton Slap once again. ", 
        "Nah man. more than once. I think there was like 5 or 6 in the last fight. Lmao", 
        "* Robbie/Condit\n* RDA/Nate\n* Conor/Frankie  \n  I could've sworn this would be the gameplan and the greatest card ever put together, but I guess they think Conor can beat Nate at 155 and are avoiding the Frankie loss they know is coming.\n", 
        "Such a simple card to make! Throw in a woman's title match and BOOM!", 
        "Amen.", 
        "What if McGregor and Diaz just fight each other every fourth event until they retire ", 
        "I'm not surprised, motherfucker.", 
        "No Fucking way Conor wins this one with Full Training Camp Diaz at Welterweight..Lessons had to be learned, Conor's another loss and bloodthirsty featherweights, another irish MMA fans meltdown..Fuck this place will be toxic wasteland n July..", 
        "Diaz wrecked him with 11 days notice, now he gets 3+ months to train.   Silly little leprechaun.  ", 
        "After Conor loses again: \"I have to be more efficient with my rematches\"", 
        "Bullshit, Conor better be stripped of the belt for inactivity. ", 
        "Jose Aldo set a precedent of the FW title not being actively defended.  At least Conor is still fighting.", 
        "Aldo was injured, Conor just doesn't want to defend the belt. ", 
        "It's a lot worse to be fighting somewhere else than in the division you're champ in, than it is to not fight because of injuries.", 
        "Why?", 
        "Because you have a responsibility to defend the belt. There's other guys who want that belt. This is the most disgraceful rematch ever arranged, hope Ariel is trolling.", 
        "Stars always get special treatment in other sports, too. Go ahead and watch the few times Messi or Ronaldo kick the shit out of another player and see if they get expelled. Rules bend for the few who bring all the views/money. I'm not saying it's okay but it is what it is. \n\nThe UFC wants to cash in big time @ 200 and they will with this fight. Could they have given the fight to Frankie @ 200? Maybe, but considering we have no idea if Conor will ever fight at 145 and that now everyone knows who Nate is, this fight will be much bigger than Frankie - Conor.", 
        "Yall are something else.  Would rather see a guy fight once every 9 months and defend the belt rather than take exciting matchups and fight 3-4 times a year. ", 
        "Or how about a guy fight 3-4 times a year against the opponents he's obligated to fight, rather than some guy he has no business fighting AGAIN. ", 
        "You guys act like he's fighting chumps.  He was supposed to be fighting the LW champion.  If you want him to vacate, great, but this isn't some harsh injustice.  The guy wants to fight a guy that beat him, over a guy he starched in 13 seconds.  He's clearly not looking for the easy route.", 
        "No he's looking for the ego route. But nobody cares about his ego except himself and you apparantly. ", 
        "He's looking at the *money* route bro. You have been living in another planet or something? Money is the only thing driving the UFC and you'd be stupid to think otherwise. Conor said many times he wants to fight, cash in and leave. This fight will get him the most money of all the other ones. Nate today is a much bigger name than Frankie. It's all about the $$$, simple as that. ", 
        "What are you even talking about?  I like watching good fights.  That's all.  The belt doesn't mean all that much, it's a symbol of who is the best in a given weight at a given time.  We know Conor is the best FW in the world, and as long as he defends it by the end of the year, he's giving people the same chance to win it as Aldo was.  ", 
        "This would be at 55 right, cause if it is Im down as fuck. I was saying a rematch at 55 would be great and downvoted and spit on to hell. Theres no need, for obvious reason, for this to be at 170...", 
        "I'm torn on this. Most likely at 155 so Conor might do better. But it will be full camp Diaz. If cabo Diaz can beat Conor I don't see how Conor could beat full camp Conor. \n\nAlso Frankie or Aldo should be fighting Conor for the belt. \n\nBut...Nate will be making another shit load of money and I always like when a Diaz makes good money. \n\nShould be Conor vs Frankie or Aldo. Doesn't matter which to me really. And Diaz vs RDA. Everyone get paid. Huge names. Awesome fights. ", 
        "Its at 170 again", 
        "This would be fine as long as McGregor vacates the belt", 
        "This doesn't really pass the sniff test to me. What if Conor wins? Then isn't there naturally going to be a McGregor - Diaz 3? That holds things up even more.", 
        "Don't like it. This is still a sport and serious matchups should be made. Even if lots of people will pay for this fight, I don't like the path the UFC is going right now.", 
        "Efficient Conor vs Full Camp Nate?", 
        "This is retarded! I'm not even sure what to think about it atm. \n\nEDIT: I hope Nate whoops his ass again. That would just be a slap in the face of Dana White and McGregor for allowing a rematch after being beaten by fresh off the beach in Cabo Nate Diaz. ", 
        "Bring it on", 
        "I actualy like it.", 
        "Conor is terrified at the thought of losing his belt.", 
        "Conor wins the rematch, then we get a rubber match. By then Frankie should be retired.", 
        "Marketability wise I feel like this is the fight to make. The fight generated so much interest from outside the mma community,  and Nate Diaz got so much attention from this fight. The fight got 1.5 million buys from less than two weeks of promotion.  Give the fight a full promotional push and it will be colossal. ", 
        "as a wise man once said: I don't give a fuk eithrrr!", 
        "Fuck everything... It's all about the money belt now", 
        "edgar is sitting in the corner with his tiger crying", 
        "Golf clap for this response. I love the recall.", 
        "That's sadly the first thing I think of when I think of frankie edgar.", 
        "Conor wants to avenge his loss, Nate wants to make more millions, it's good for both of them but this is waaaaaaay too soon I think this loss really got to Conor there is no other explanation ", 
        "If Conor loses, he is pretty much done. There will be no more talkshows. No more millions made every fight. This is NOT good for Conor at all.", 
        "###WTF", 
        "This just describes it perfectly. Wonder if we're being trolled..", 
        "Seems like the UFC wants to have full camp Nate squish their shiny new toy into non-existence. What a silly UFC. ", 
        "who wants to see this? as if nate isn't gonna beat his ass again ..WITH a full camp...they've lost their minds. very disappointing if this is the 200 main...ugh", 
        "If the Fertitta's bros are really looking to sell the UFC, this is the fight to make.  It's a big fight, possibly cannibalizing  McGregor in exchange for PPV numbers, thereby increasing the valuation of UFC leading to a bigger pay day.", 
        "DansGame", 
        "If Conor loses that match he is going to have some issues.", 
        "Like selling the house and his cars. Because this would be his last big payday.", 
        "Yep", 
        "He would still have featherweight to go back to if they don't vacate. Even if he does lose he will be in the same position he is now, I honestly can't see why his sales would drop off that much, especially aldo/frankie fights", 
        "I think he will vacate 145, don't think he can make that weight nor should he.  His future is at 155, and if he is beaten again he will lose marketability.  Plus, 2 losses back to back are hard on fighters.  TBH, if he can't beat Diaz there is no way he wins against RDJ or Cerrone.  It's a pretty tough spot for him, and I think McGregor is a fantastic athlete and fighter.  He is believing his own hype, and that's a serious issue.", 
        "Gross. Diaz fans want Nate to have the chance to have a belt, not be some wild card gate keeper when UFC posterboys want to go on a safari.", 
        "I think Conor is planning his retirement, so he is looking to get as much money as quickly as possible. He will get a lot of money for this rematch. Even if he loses this fight he will go back and defend his 145 belt for another big payday. If he wins that he will go for super fight at 155 for the biggest payday of all. He could go for some kind of super fight at 170 depending on how things play out, but my prediction is that he only fights like 3 or 4 more times before he retires.", 
        "Well this sucks", 
        "If nate loses does he also get a rematch or does this shit only apply to Conor?", 
        "They should do it at 155 then. that might give conner the edge by weakening Diaz.", 
        "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H07zYvkNYL8", 
        "I'll allow it", 
        "FINISH HIM", 
        "He needs to vacate the belt if he isn't going to take the Aldo or Frankie fight. This is stupid. UFC fix your shit man.", 
        "He's never cutting that weight again. I'm calling it. \n", 
        "I bet you're right. Which means vacant title. Which means Aldo Frankie!!!!!!!", 
        "It's official. Conor is no one's bitch. ", 
        "UFC REMATCH MONEY 200\nNate Conor II\nRobbie Nick II\nRonda Holm II\naldo cub II\nSONNEN SILVA III\n", 
        "The only way I'm cool with this is if Conor vacates his belt ... If not the UFC is a joke. ", 
        "Oh Diaz is going to kill him and I can't wait :D", 
        "Dana \"The Pimp\" White will be the richest pimp in all the land..", 
        "While I do think conor was winning most of the fight, diaz came in larger and more experienced. It takes more than jabs to put him away, and conor was outsized in that regard. \n\nIt's a bad matchup, and a worse rematch. When he loses again it will really bury him in the eyes of a lot of fans. He should go defend his belt instead and try to keep up some air of legitimatecy to that title.", 
        "Yeah Connor was winning and landed some good punches but was unable to keep up the rhythm in the 2nd round. And Diaz knew it, you could see it Connor's face how exhausted he was ", 
        "THE DREAM!!!!", 
        "For who?", 
        "I'm a big fan of both these guys but I feel like they are only making this rematch because it's UFC 200", 
        "This is absolute horseshit. ", 
        "I'd rather see Conor vs. dos Anjos at 200.", 
        "Why? Literally no one wants to watch that. We want to see Edgar or RDA vs Magreggor", 
        "Don't forget, we were supposed to see lawler vs Hendricks 3. Make your voice heard!", 
        "the fuck? What about Aldo? Frankie? Holloway? What is the purpose of a rematch?", 
        "Why? Im a Conor fan but he deserves to get his ass beat again for being this stupid. ", 
        "Very odd. Can't say I'm a fan. Essp at Welterweight.\n\nConor shoulda defend his belt or imo his best weightclass is lightweight. Just stay there for a few years and have some superfights at 170 if you are on a winning streak.\n\nI see Diaz winning again.", 
        "Not a good idea. McGregor is out of his mind. ", 
        "/u/Fightsgoneby What do you think Jack?", 
        "I think Conor insisted on a rematch to avenge his loss.  UFC will bend over backwards for him, thus a UFC 200 main event.", 
        "So weird. Lawler will probably be fighting in the co-main with his belt on the line. Meanwhile the main event will have pride on the line lol", 
        "I think the imaginary belt, king of the 209, has more intrinsic value.", 
        "I want to see best of 5-  back to back to back to back to back", 
        "I really hope this isn't true. I'm a fan of both, more so Conor and Conor NEEDS to defend his belt, it's bullshit if he doesn't because Edgar and Aldo deserve a chance to get the belt, if this rematch goes on I'm 100% behind Diaz.", 
        "Not surprised, motherfuckers?\n", 
        "If Conor wins this fight, I have no idea wtf will happen to this sub LOL", 
        "As someone who was all about this fight the first time it went down and was super hyped for it, this is a terrible idea.\n\nNate won pretty decisively on 10 days notice. There are a lot of variables that could lead this to being even worse a second time around and you risk hurting Conor's mystique even further if he loses again. Make the Edgar fight or give him a fun, non-RDA 155er like Pettis. This fight is a huge mistake, IMO.", 
        "Why do this again, I don't get it", 
        "If you don't like this fight, let @danawhite know on Twitter.  Just don't be a goof.", 
        "I wish i had Fight Pass so i could unsubscribe it. Fucking retards.", 
        "I keep thinking about it and it just makes no sense.\n\nNate loses and his momentum he built up is gone. Conor loses twice in a row and his reputation/stock tanks heavily.\n\nThe only way i see this making sense is if:\n\nConor can't make the weight-cut anymore, and if this is the case then he should vacate his title.\n\nOR\n\nConor is done fighting and wants one last big money fight to go on, which is very unlikely.", 
        "This would end in the same way the first fight did imo", 
        "Surely if this is McGregor's next fight he must vacate the featherweight belt. ", 
        "I don't like it. I love McGregor but he should defend his title against Edgar (he deserves the shot IMO). Even an Aldo rematch would be okay but this non title rematch at WW vs Diaz doesn't make sense.", 
        "Nate Diaz goes from not moving any needles to being THE MAIN EVENT AT TWO OF THE BIGGEST UFC EVENTS EVER", 
        "I thought he only agreed to WW because Nate came in on short notice.  Everyone knows Nate can make 155 easy when he is prepared for it, so why WW?  Is conor really that big now?", 
        "yeah, WW seems pointless. ", 
        "Connor is the new rumble :)", 
        "So...is Conor gonna defend his belt or what?", 
        "McGregor is going to get destroyed again.  Diaz didn't even have time to train for the first fight.  This one He'll actually be prepared.", 
        "This has to be a joke. Who the fk wants this fight? ", 
        "He's not going to vacate the belt at 145, the only reason he can gamble on himself again at UFC 200 is because that 145 belt is his safety net, win, lose or draw McGregor can still fall back on the 145 championship to sell his smack talk. ", 
        "Fuck this. ", 
        "Unless they fight for a belt, it should not become the main event at UFC 200, as I think of it it shouldn't even be the co-main event, but since Connor is where the money is for the UFC that won't work.", 
        "Boo-urns!", 
        "Is everything about the money at the end of the day?", 
        "Vacate the belt then. This is fucking stupid", 
        "I wouldn't mind watching Nate Diaz beat the piss out of Conor again...", 
        "Anything other than McGregor v Edgar or McGregor v Aldo, for the featherweight belt, would be an absolute farce ", 
        "Brutal. Nobody really wants that.  You can't have the featherweight champ fight out of his division in 2 consecutive fights and allow him to keep the title. I'm pretty sure he doesn't fancy the idea of doing that giant cut to 145 but he either has to vacate the title or defend in his next appearance. Simple as that.", 
        "Can this even be considered a sport anymore? I think I'm done with it.", 
        "Fighting for the McGregor Belt", 
        "Dana and Lorenzo have absolutely no faith in Dos Anjos or Frankie to draw interest/viewers.", 
        "Probably because they don't.  RDA definitely doesn't.", 
        "Welcome to the UFC's \"How to kill your biggest star in 5 months\"", 
        "I like the fight, but should be at 155lbs ", 
        "Conor is getting another L on his resume. Should defend his belt instead.", 
        "So when they said they'd listen to what the fans wanted they just meant the casual Facebook fans who thought it was unfair Diaz was allowed to win on the ground?", 
        "Everyone's super mad but from the UFC's perspective this is win-win. They'll cash super hard on the rematch considering 196 was the highest PPV ever. Nate became a big name, got all this exposure and it's pretty likely that the rematch will be even bigger . If Conor wins, it's great for the UFC, they can just keep promoting him as a star since he would've avenged his loss. If Nate wins, then Nate becomes HUGE with all that attention and suddenly UFC has another huge name that draws big money. UFC 200 is going to be fucking *massive*.\n\nPoor Frankie though. I'm sure they're gonna offer him to fight Edgar or Holloway or something like that and he'll completely refuse (as he should). ", 
        "Do it at 155. And have Aldo and Frankie fight on the card to set up who fights Conor for the belt later on in the year", 
        "Isn't there a rumor going around that the Fertittas might sell the UFC? Sounds like this could be one last payday before they cash out.. ", 
        "> If all goes as planned, the promotion is hoping to announce the fight shortly.\n\nMaybe they're planning on announcing it on April 1st?", 
        "So Aldo vs Edgar for the interim belt?", 
        "Make it the actual belt.  Connor has given up on 145 if this fight actually gets made. ", 
        "So your telling me Aldo didn't deserve an immediate rematch for his belt but Connor deserves an immediate rematch when his !atch wasn't even for a belt wtf", 
        "You should know by now its not who deserves what. It's all about what is going to bring in the most money. McGregor vs Diaz 2 would bring in the casual fans in droves as well as the hardcore fans who watch every PPV anyway. It's a money maker. ", 
        "id rather give mcgregor a title shot against rda we already seen connor vs diaz and im scared if connor wins they need a third fight to prove who is really better", 
        "Seriously though...\n\nCouple of the possible explanations from my point of view:\n\n1. Conor is asking for a favor. He took the fight on short notice, had already committed to doing UFC 200 and wants this one back. Gotta think that the UFC would insist that he vacated the 145 belt in return for the rematch, so I would expect Aldo vs Edgar for the 145 lb title would be announced shortly after this was made official.\n\n2. Another possibility is that the UFC is pushing this because rumors of a sale are indeed true. This fight does very little for the sport/competition side of things. It would; however, be a mega financial success. If the UFC is looking for the highest valuation it can get, this might be the best choice.", 
        "IDK why Conor wants this fight, Nate has figured him out & his use of his length", 
        "Yeah he really figured him out for the first round and a half.. lol IF Conor just paces himself the fight will be no contest. He just wanted to knock him out too much..\n\nNate claims he will dominate if he has a full camp.. why should we believe that?", 
        "Now you're saying it was because Conor didn't pace himself? What happened to your bullshit rope-a-dope story? Or that Nate didn't want a rematch and was going to retire? This is why you live with your parents.", 
        "That's the whole point of the rope a dope.. jesus... you still don't get it?\n\nI still don't think he will do a rematch...  ", 
        "wow that's lame. Edgar deserves the shot.", 
        "Well, at least Nate is gonna get paid again. ", 
        "conor: weight should never be an issue, champions should be able to go up and down--   \n*loses*  \nconor: Yeah, well, I took the risk goin up to 170...-  \n", 
        "I think Rousey should move up to 145 and fight Conor it would break all the records!. Conor said he will fight anyone and rousey can eat apples so lets bang.", 
        "relinquish the 145 belt and fuck off then\n\nthis is absurd. and if conor loses again, then what? have they begun drafting a list of excuses? ", 
        "Full camp Nate versus Full camp Conor, UFC200", 
        "Implying Conor did not have a full camp?", 
        "No, in the first match it was Full Camp Conor vs Fat boy off the beach in Cabo Nate; now it will be Full camp Nate. It wasn't even Nate's final form", 
        "Maybe full-camp Nate vs no-touch-butt Conor?", 
        "If this is true gotta hand to Conor. Not a lot of guys will want an immediate rematch against a guy that smoked you up standing and choked you out.", 
        "Did we watch the same fight? Nate was lit up entire first round and Conor gassed himself out. ", 
        "It was a lot closer than it looked. I think 28 significant strikes by Conor to 23 by Diaz .", 
        "I saw Nate hit him with a clean combination that rocked him and then slapping on a rear naked choke to tap him out. Which way you want to spin it thats what happened. Just amazed Conor is eager for that rematch. The pressure alone on having to win this fight would turn a lot of other fighters of from asking for a rematch if they were in Conor's situation.", 
        "What???? He loses to Diaz again, that's whatever. He loses his belt, that's a problem for him. This is the easy way out and also pathetic and embarrasing. ", 
        "Maybe he said he won't cut to 145 anymore? Still if he makes the change in division i would like to see him climbing that ladder instead of this. Much more exciting.\n\nBut $$$.", 
        "Very possible. John Kavanagh supposedly told Dana after the Aldo fight he doesn't want Conor cutting to 145 ever again.", 
        "I would totally understand that.. he made alot of money, won the belt,  he doesn't need it. And that shit doesn't look healthy :x", 
        "I ain't surprised mother fuckers", 
        "Unless, have Aldo/Frankie fight it out for the interim belt on the same card. Boom. UFC 200.", 
        "As a Conor hater I love this idea. ", 
        "This is the fucking worst. ", 
        "I dont mind this rematch, as long as Conor vacates the belt - he is kind of holding it hostage. \n\nBut to be fair, its less time than what it was when Jose had the belt - lol. That dude never fought. ", 
        "I have a large jar of bees I keep under my bed. I poked holes in the lid for air, and pour honey in once a day for them to eat. Does anyone know how long I have to wait for one of them to turn into a queen?", 
        "sounds like McGregor ducking the McGregor division", 
        "Fuck that. What kind of champion fights non title fights back to back? Fook off.", 
        "I'd rather Lawler/Big Rig 3.\n\nCan we get this one called off too?", 
        "I really wanted Conor vs. Edgar. BOO", 
        "While I'm not a big fan of this fight since it holds up the 145 division and is rather unneeded since Nate won easily, I'm happy Nate will be getting another big payday.", 
        "Unlimited Finances for Conor", 
        "Fight Frankie dammit!!!", 
        "He's scared. He knows if he loses his title, he will have to sell his house and cars in the near future. If this fight turns out to be true, its the ultimate proof that he is shitting himself currently.", 
        "This fight doesn't make sense though. If he wins, so what. If he loses, cut him.", 
        "I don't want to see McG v Diaz 2. \n\nI don't want to see McG v Aldo 2. \n\nI want McG v Edgar. ", 
        "Nate with a full camp will own him, again.\n\nNot hyped for this.\n", 
        "I'm tired of Conor ducking Edgar. If he really wants to fuck around at 155 some more I hope he vacates the 145lb title.", 
        "How else can I say this? Dana White is riding the fuck out of Connor Mcgregor's dick right now holy shit he's really putting his hips into it to. Wow.", 
        "And if Nate beats his ass again, then what? ", 
        "Then he talks about overcoming adversity and asks for another rematch!", 
        "Please no.", 
        "Lol Dana wants his golden child back on top like he wanted for Ronda", 
        "Blow @danawhite up on Twitter if this isn't the fight you want.  Just try not to be a fucking goof about it.", 
        "Would Nate have got the rematch had he lost? Come on now.", 
        "Fuuuck that. McGregor doesn't deserve a rematch. He lost. Plain and simple. No controversy, no fluke, no ambiguity. He doesn't deserve automatic do-overs until he wins. On to the next fight please.", 
        "mcgregor is done if this happens", 
        "Everybody saying \"wtf\" like they won't buy it anyway. ", 
        "Nate's getting paid off to take a dive if it happens", 
        "I don't see someone like Nate taking a dive. He isn't a yes man", 
        "This is just stupid. Fucking Dana. ", 
        "Get that ass whooped again", 
        "I'm a massive Conor fan, but this is bullshit.\n\nIs UFC going full Japanese mma on this : just exhibition fights?  You can't have a belt and not defend it.\nAldo has infinitely more right of a rematch, let alone Frankie, who he has never fought.\n\nConor has to defend his 145 or vacate.", 
        "This is honestly the fight that makes the most business sense.\n\nIf Conor rematches Diaz you're guaranteed two more massive cards from him.  One for Diaz, and one for the 145 defense.  Regardless of anything else he's your biggest star by the numbers.\n\nIf Conor loses at 145, you lose the Diaz rematch also.  \n\n2 big fights > 1 big fight.  \n", 
        "But would Diaz be Surprised?", 
        "If they still try to let him keep his belt....", 
        "Well it's definitely the biggest money fight for him, great story to sell, but I don't like it too much.", 
        "I guess they saw the crazy numbers that UFC 196 achieved and decided to do it again. I hope they forced him to vacate the FW belt.", 
        "It was obvious that this was an option but I kind of hate it. See zero point. Let Conor fight for his belt. C'mon now. ", 
        "looks like they really are gonna sell the ufc", 
        "I thought a rematch would make sense down the line. Let both dudes defend/ get a shot. Then rematch at LW. I'm sure Conor would perform better and they both would have a full camp. \n\n\nHowever, those claiming \"this rematch doesn't make sense\", Conor looked better in his first round here than Jose did in his fight against Conor. Yet everyone wants Jose.", 
        "Loool hell yea, full camp trash talking from both sides will be epic", 
        "Ariel called it", 
        "Bad idea. I hope it wouldnt be 170 lbs at least....", 
        "Lawler-GSP\nTate-Rousey III\nMcGregor-Diaz II\nAldo-Edgar for #1 Contender\nVelasquez-Browne", 
        " If connor loses again you have derailed a money train. This is a very poor investment for the UFC. Im surprised the UFC brass is ok with this, if the bottom line is what they are thinking about.", 
        "Opposite.\n\nIf Conor loses the belt you derailed the money train.  If Conor loses another no-title fight at 170, you throw the switch and put the train on the wrong tracks but it hasn't derailed yet.\n\nAs long as Conor has the 145 belt he's money.  The second he loses it he's lots less money.  That's the bigger fall from grace is losing title he does have, not losing twice to a guy from a division above him.\n\n", 
        "I don't think it looks too good to have a champ who has two losses in a row and is still holding onto a belt, but that's just me. He will always be able to bring in revenue due to his style and personality, but I think this could be a difficult step back if he takes another loss. I honestly think he would win the second time around though.", 
        "I like this. They could build it up for the casuals, get big ppv numbers and I get to see Nate whoop McGregor's ass again. ", 
        "If Conor loses again...", 
        "I hope Frankie comes in with an AK47....right after the Buffer 360.", 
        "Maybe they are looking to make as much money as possible with this event before selling to China.", 
        "Hopefully the UFC is reading this thread.", 
        "This is so fucking dumb but I'm going to watch the shit out of it.", 
        "Maybe they are waiting to see if the get New York and could have Frankie fight at MSG? ", 
        "After 196, I believed this was a good loss for Conner. Experimented jumping up 2 weight classes and came up short. He was humble in defeat as he always said he would be and I thought he'd come to his senses and stay at 145/155. Evidently not. Money talks, and he's never been unclear about being all about it. He already has the draw, but rematches with Aldo and Nate are the biggest money makers. I just wish he'd stop holding up the 145 division and give Frankie the shot. Going to be fun to see Nate on the road to 200 with already having the win over McGregor too (if this proves to be true).", 
        "Conor \"weight doesn't matter\" McGregor probably doesn't want to cut to 145 anymore.", 
        "\"WELTERWEIGHT rematch\"??!! WTF?", 
        "If this is true bet the house on diaz ", 
        "I'll tell you this, even if its at 155 McGregor better not try to knock Nate out. Those Diaz brothers can take a punch. Only time i've seen Nate even close to KO'd was the head kick by Josh Thompson. Even then he recovered quick. \n\nEdit: Wanted to add that it's a possibility Conor won't be able to make 145lbs. ", 
        "The rematch would be at 170, so there wouldn't be 145", 
        "whyyy, he should defend the FW belt then rematch Nate... and if anything, at 155 since that is where Nate and Conor will most likely end up at. The rematch so soon and at 170 makes no sense. ", 
        "Noooooo please don't be true....\n\nPoor Frankie...", 
        "Props to Conor for wanting to right the ship and avenge the loss, but this is an even bigger gamble than the first one. They can make excuses and get away with the short notice, weight class jump, inefficient talk, but two losses to the same guy within a few months will dampen that bottom line the next time around. Another loss means the featherweight champion would be 0-2 in his last two fights.  A win would likely mean a rubber match, especially if the PPV buys are through the roof again. Either way, 145 is on hold for the foreseeable future.", 
        "But... WHY?!\n\nIs this a Connor ego thing? \"That was just a fluke I beat him 9/10 times whaa whaa\"?", 
        "I'm happy for Nate because he's gonna finally get paid and pushed but wtf is McGregor and his team thinking? Nate was nowhere near top shape and he still won beat him convincingly at his own game with at most ten days of serious training. And what's going to happen with his belt? If he doesn't slim down again now, it's just going to get harder and take longer before he can get back to defend it. And chances are he's going to get too big to go back to FW again after a while. Maybe it's already too late and that's why he stays at 155. If that's true he has a problem because I don't like his chances against a lot of those guys. ", 
        "I don't get why people are thinking this is a bad idea, Conor fucked Nate up in the 1st round but got caught in the 2nd. The fight i want though is Conor vs Aldo 2 ", 
        "The stats were pretty close for the first round. Conor clearly won but I think the significant strikes were not that much different. 28 for Mac 23 for Diaz", 
        "The stats my have been close but the damage wasn't", 
        "the way a face looks means nothing. Look at GSPs face after Condit or Nick Diaz. GSPs face looked mangled and he won both fights dominantly. Nate has a lot a scar tissue like Forrest Griffin they will bleed from any punch ", 
        "i'll let someone of you more articulate guys analyze this. I can only mutter how fucking stupid this is. ", 
        "Why would Conor want this? Imagine if Nate whoops his ass again... It would be a huge strike to his invincibility image/aura. All the casual fans on the McGregor bandwagon would probably lose interest in him. Getting beaten by the same guy twice in a row... I thought Conor would be fine with fighting in FW next, then LW and then in the future perhaps getting a rematch with Nate", 
        "I don't see the upside for Diaz unless it's a seven figure deal.", 
        "$$$. Being on the what might be the biggest card ever and coming off a win over him they're gonna have to pay him a boat load. Also he just beat him off the couch so he probably views it as an \"easy\" fight.", 
        "I really hope this isn't true, but could you imagine if Diaz beat him again.", 
        "Wow does this seem like a horrible idea. He should fight Frankie, if he never wants to cut to 45 again he should give up his belt. I think Diaz is a horrible match up for him even if he preserves his energy.\n\nIf Nate beats him again, he will probably retire and then you basically just ruined your biggest draw ever. I guess Conor really does get whatever he wants from Dana ", 
        "This will be terrible for many reasons if it goes through.....", 
        "No. Fuck you UFC and Dana White. ", 
        "Ahahahaha", 
        "Oh no....", 
        "Must have been a tough decision for Dana. I'd say it will cost him a fortune to get Nate to lose this one", 
        "I think Diaz wins ", 
        "I *am* surprised motherfuckers.", 
        "I'd be more interested if I thought Conor has a chance to win. Even if he is more efficient I don't see this going much better considering it will be against full-camp Nate.", 
        "Ughhhhhhhh. I guess Conor can't cut to 145 anymore. If they do make that fight Conor needs to vacate that tittle asap and let people fight for it. \n\nI don't like that rematch I don't see Conor doing better. I guess it would be interesting to see whether he takes a different approach but my money will be on Diaz again. ", 
        "I think these articles are posted here just to get a reaction and see what the fans want. ", 
        "Hopefully, cuz no one wants this rematch(at least not right now), what a stupid idea.\n\nIf it actually happens lets just hope that he vacates his belt.", 
        "I want RDA v Nate, Conor v Rankie, and depending on how the jones fight goes, it would be awesome to see the winer on 200", 
        "I hate this and think it's stupid just like the rest of you. The silver lining however is that our boy Nate will hopefully make a pocket full of cash again and maybe whoop McGregor again. Also he will likely wreck him in the pre fight antics since he already beat him on short notice .", 
        "Why?", 
        "Connor needs to defend his title, and stop fantisising about other divisions. UFC have been on a tear lately with great match-up's and amazing events, but this one is way off.\n\n200 needs title fights not circus acts. \nAnd small chunky gas-McGregor sucks anyway!", 
        "This might mean that it'll be Edgar vs Aldo at 200 for the title contender.", 
        "Well... I'm surprised, motherfuckers!", 
        "If Conor loses to Nate, I bet Conor still fights RDA before Nate does. ", 
        "I am surprised motherfuckers. ", 
        "The Conor McGregor show ladies and Gentlemen ", 
        "If you think about it, there is no other fight that will produce as much numbers. It is the money fight for sure. ", 
        "Wanna know why this is bad? If Conor wins, we're gonna see a rubber match. ", 
        "He needs to defend that 145 belt.  This is bs.  I'd rather see Nate fight someone else and Conor too.", 
        "Im a Mac fan.\nI like this fight. But I also think Conor should just give up the 145 and let Aldo and Frankie fight for it.\nIf Aldo beats Frankie, it gives Conor no reason to ever go back to 145. If Frankie wins, then Conor can always go back down and try to get the title back from Frankie.\nI don't think Conor wants the 145 anymore. I think he wants to be in the 155.\n\nI think he's obsessed with trying to avenge his only loss.\n\nIn terms of business, Nate vs Conor is a bigger sell then Conor vs Aldo or Frankie, but its a huge gamble for UFC because if Conor looses twice in a row he's going to completely loose his shine and will always be looked at as Nate's bitch.\n\nIf Conor wins, he's back on top again and can't start angling for an RDA re-do.\n\nGuessing 200 now is something like:\nConor vs Nate //\nRDA vs Alvarez or someone else //\nAldo vs Frankie //\nLawler vs someone or Tate vs someone //\nCain vs Browne //\nand others", 
        "https://streamable.com/9p0o", 
        "Conor should defend his belt first or give it up", 
        "This would make a ton of sense if you have this fight at 155 to determine the #1 contender for RDA, AND you have Frankie vs. Aldo for the 145 Interim Championship. I would get pumped for those two fights back to back! \n", 
        "GIVE FRANKIE HIS FUCKING TITLE FIGHT.", 
        "Good for Nate as he gets another pay day.\n\nBut for the sport? WTF.  Conor lost he should defend his belt. ", 
        "Helwani nose.", 
        "WTF??  This is a stupid match if this is true.  Are there no other options for McGregor and Nate?", 
        "Funny that such a self-professed 'true' martial artist is so blinded by his own ego.\n\nConor will get beat even more soundly this time around. ", 
        "The first fight made no sense to me because now you get this kind of shit. It will be interesting to see how Conor reacts at least with his entire hype train on the line", 
        "People who think that McGregor was dominating and Diaz just got lucky in the fight... Yes on the cards McGregor looked good for sure. He won the first round but the Diaz brothers are notoriously slow starters. He was bleeding is the cry from them too ya well both brothers have huge amounts of scar tissue and cut fairly easy and refs and everyone who watches them know this. Diaz had NO camp so this sparring and cardio issue caused him to get caught more often than normal. If you rewatch the fight and look closely you will notice that Diaz slipped or rolled with a lot of the punches. A few hit flush but most were misses or rolled. 155 might be interesting but Diaz is a horrible match up for McGregor. A rock chin, (people seem to forget that he has been hit by punches from Johnson, RDA etc and still hangs in there) His ground game is elite level so bad idea to go there so it has to remain on the feet. \n\nfor me the main problem is that McGregor also is used to a reach and strength advantage over his opponents (and needs more than most for his countering punch style) As he moves up in weight people are more used to strength and power and his advantages at 145 is minimized. Its not like he is some super power  that lets him keep his strength and reach advantages as he increases in weight. \n\nHis match up for sure is at 145 is Frankie. If he dodges it for another fight after getting smoked at 155 (not sure why people keep saying this was 170 when it wasn't, it was a 155 fight with no weight cut) AND Nate had zero camp so was out of shape sparring and prep wise. So why do people think the result will change?", 
        "such bullshit booking for a number of reasons:\n1. we just saw it...\n2. it looks like they are trying to take away what nate has accomplished.\n3. it couldn't be a more desperate attempt to sell PPV\n4. yeah the FWs get fucked again, but even without this point this is complete bullshit. ", 
        "if ufc does this, they are killling their goose that lays golden eggs.  i do believe he can beat nate, but not on this quick of turn around.  let him defend his belt and fight some other lightweights first.    ", 
        "I feel like this is a lose lose for the UFC. If Conor does beat Nate, then we have an inevitable rubber match. If he loses again, that shit is gonna burn. What a dumb decision. Conor vs Frankie would make the most sense. ", 
        "No thanks.", 
        "This isn't the smartest idea from Connor. I mean I get it from a marketing point of view, but Diaz on a full camp sounds like trouble for McGregor, I know he won't go all out like he did in the first round of the previous fight, but at the same time Diaz isn't gonna start as slow either.", 
        "Honestly it's funny how they think an immediate rematch is appealing, it's really not...", 
        "RDA vs Lawler on the card? ", 
        "The fact that the fight will be at WW tells me one thing: this is Conor's doing, and only his doing. He wants to prove that his loss was due to bad strategy, not a lack of skill, and what better way to do that than to replicate 196 conditions AND step it up a notch by having a fully prepared Nate? If this decision was primarily influenced by the draw, then we'd see them fight at LW, which is where both fighters belong and which would arguably give Conor better odds.  \n  \n>I'll learn from it, come back and do it again.", 
        "If this is true, Nate must be getting a super paid for it. Right now is probably his best chance at getting a this title shot", 
        "Yes the PPV did great numbers but this rematch makes zero fucking sense. Conor should defend against Frankie and Nate should have his pick of RDA or Lawler.\n\nNate beat Conor on 11 days notice. What difference is 6-8 weeks gonna make? If that's the main event, fuck that card.", 
        "What the fuck!!! I love it though!", 
        "So Diaz gets a full camp now and it's gonna go different how? lol", 
        "This won't happen based on fan backlash. Defend your fucking belt.", 
        "Um. Why?!", 
        "Seems like Connor really wants to avenge his loss.", 
        "Connor said he wasn't going to bottleneck the division. If he doesn't fight Frankie or Aldo before this, he's doing exactly that. ", 
        "Trilogy probably in the works if Conor wins... Conor needs to defend that belt or give it up if he wants to fight outside featherweight ", 
        "Not time for this, especially not at 170 WTF?", 
        "Who benefits more from being able to study the others striking technique?", 
        "The fighter who isn't one dimensional.  The fighter that while getting cut, didn't get hurt in the last fight.  The fighter that wasn't rattled with a punch to the chin.  The fighter that didn't panic wrestle.  The better fighter.  Nate Diaz", 
        "At least Nate will be getting paid $$$$$$$$", 
        "Wtf! Mind is officially boggled. I mean I like the match but what is the UFC thinking?? You have 2 stars now capitalize on that !", 
        "Wow, this is a great fight for revenue and I'll sure buy the hell out of it.  My casual friends will come over and chip in as well because they loved the first fight.\n\nBUT...this can't be a good fight for Conor long-term. I guess the money is just too tempting?  RIP dreams of becoming the all-belts eternal champion?", 
        "Breathe.. Breathe. Okay I needed to calm myself down. First of all it's way too soon to get riled up. 200 is in July, plenty of time for the entire card to change with \"injuries\". Besides, this is all just the usual planned hype. Having Ariel tweet the masses gets half the world's attention and #UFC200 is now a top trend for weeks. Either way I'm always game for another Conor humiliation. ", 
        "I feel for Frankie but I am going to find the silver lining in this, because let's be honest, Dana is gonna do Dana. If this fight gets signed I will find happiness in the fact that Nate will be getting big back to back pay days. I personally am a huge Diaz Bros fan but even if you hate them you have to admit that Nate represents a lot of the fighters in the UFC who are exciting and bring it in every fight but get shafted when it comes to the paycheck. Nate was severely underpaid and part of that was his fault but it's nice to see that he will be rewarded for all the wars he has been in that will likely effect his health later in his life ", 
        "Nate on a full training camp with supreme confidence ???", 
        "I don't want see that. ", 
        "I want to see this, but like 12 months down the road. The only way i'd be happy with this is ifConor defends his title before UFC 200 and that's not going to happen if he fights Diaz.", 
        "The king of fighting against short-notice fighters gets a immediate rematch, when he hasn't even defended his title once?  Meanwhile other fighters with better credentials/history don't, and he gets to continue to keep holding up the FW division for these antics..", 
        "I am calling it:  Diaz 3rd round standing rear naked choke.", 
        "I thought Conor was smarter than this. Back to back L's won't be a good look on him. Can't wait to see what he says to try and pump himself up cause it'll all be bullshit considering how Nate put him away on 11 days notice. If I'm Nate I'm asking for $1 million flat plus PPV points since the UFC so desperate to have Conor avenge his loss. ", 
        "nooOOOOOoooOOOoooOO", 
        "Beat down city. ", 
        "I fucking knew it. This is the biggest money fight for the UFC bigger than Aldo, RDA, Frankie whoever", 
        "All they want is McGregor to win and then say see what happens when i have time to prepare, his win against me was a fluke....they are more focused on McGregor getting revenge than do the fight that matters", 
        "[deleted]", 
        ">they know he WILL win..\n\nThey **hope** he will win. Diaz showed us exactly how much Conor *knew*.\n\nAlso, welcome back sir rope-a-dope.", 
        "I'm fine with this, but he better vacate", 
        "Have them fight for a 165 lbs belt. Because why the fuck not, make shit up as you go.", 
        "Can we not please? ", 
        "why?! this is stupid. there's little reason to do this. and it puts the 145 belt on suspension and hurts the careers of all the 145 challengers", 
        "McGregor gets beat and the hype is officially over. I'm a McGregor fan and this is a horrible idea.\n\nPersonally want Aldo/McGregor 2 ", 
        "Fuck that, a Champion should be defending his belt, specially one that isn't established yet. When a champion with multiple defenses under his belt goes for a fight in other division or a non title fight is one thing. But a fighter with 0 defenses fight not only once but TWICE without defend his belt is pathetic, it diminishes the sport and the UFC, specially in a division with clear contenders like Frankie and a former champion that had multiple defenses and was undefeated for a decade waiting for a rematch.", 
        "It's not the fight that Nate wants. it's not the fight Frankie Edgar, Dos Anjos or Aldo want to see. It's not a fight that I as a UFC and MMA fan want to see for UFC 200. I don't know if this is because Connor is whining about it or if they're just trying to milk this publicity for all its got considering the recent turnouts for McGregor, but I really think there are better options for UFC 200. ", 
        "do you honestly think nate does not want this ? Aldo, Edgar, Hardcore UFC fan does not want it but everyone else wants it . Think about it , he can buy the yatch he was talking about . ", 
        "I'm sure he wouldn't mind the paycheck that will come with it, and you know Nate doesn't give a shit who he fights.\n\nI just think Nate specifically was hoping to get a title shot soon, I don't feel like a rematch was exactly the next thing on his list.", 
        "correct, he doesnt care about who he fights or titles . what has been nate saying all this time. He wants the BIGGEST fights. what do you think will earn him more money and fame and future career growth a match against conor or a title shot against RDA ? ", 
        "So Aldo isn't getting a rematch but Connor is? Nate came in short notice and finished Connor who had a full camp.. Wtf??!!! This makes no sense. A champion should only fight title fights, wtf are they doing? ", 
        "Would go along with \"it's still steak every morning for me\" statement by mcgregor", 
        "why...", 
        "145 is too hard to cut to now. Aldo vs Edgar UFC 200 for the 145 belt. Guaranteed.\n\nAldo or Edgar will not take any other fights and they will get the same money they would have got as they will be on the same PPV as Conor", 
        "Connor gonna regret this", 
        "meh.", 
        "And he will lose again. \n\nAnd there goes Conor and all his fame...  The UFC brass is downplaying Conor to keep their hands on the wheel of the franchise. ", 
        "fuck the UFC. this is BS", 
        "Bad idea", 
        "Noooo! There's no point to it! Fight someone else.", 
        "The ufc 200 effect", 
        "It's not the fight I'd want to see most but I don't want to see McGregor half kill himself to make FW again and it's great for Diaz.", 
        "I'm tired of these undeserved rematches. ", 
        "What if McGregor loses again?", 
        "Who would have thought that Nate Diaz would turn out to be Conor's White Whale?", 
        "All these non-sense rematches make me care less and less about the UFC.", 
        "why is this happening? they just fought and Nate was the one who fought at a disadvantage and won, who but the UFC themselves want this to happen? Conor does not deserve a do over.  I feel like this just wastes time when Nate should be fighting for the title or a top guy at 155.", 
        "Conor winning is arguably the worst case scenario for fighters in both divisions as it will all-but ensure a 3rd fight with Nate.", 
        "Are you fucking kidding me", 
        "wat.", 
        "this is like the idea of Rousey coming right back 12 weeks later and dominating Holm. huh? let them fight some other homies and sharpen their game up, it was a finish after all.", 
        "I would like to see it happen down the road, but this is way too soon...", 
        "Didn't wanna see Conor at 145 but what is this.... Anyone else but Nate would have been interesting, and the build up surely won't be nearly as fun as anything else. \n\nThe only reason they could have is to hope Conor wins for the big money RDA fight ", 
        "Frankie Edgar needs to literally murder someone in the cage to get a shot at this point. Maybe THEN that would be considered a money fight. Goddamnit...\n\n", 
        "He's never cutting that weight again. I'm calling it. \n", 
        "How when diaz is suspended from fighting til august right?", 
        "Wrong Diaz", 
        "Lol what? Why?", 
        "This is such a dangerous fight for the UFC and McGregor.  Why risk Conor losing 2 in a row?  While Aldo or Frankie isn't a safe fight at least Conor would have a size/reach advantage against either.", 
        "What a fucking farce. Edgar gets shafted again.", 
        "That is just what the UFC needs, a reigning Champ on a 2-fight losing streak!", 
        "#JUSTICE4FRANKIE", 
        "This is so disappointing", 
        "I like seeing immediate rematches to be honest. Sometimes the fight was so one-sided I don't want one, but usually the top fighters put on a great show and I really believe that a fight can go either way on any given night. \n\nLooking forward to McG and Diaz revenge match!", 
        "Conor really wants to be the first to hold two simultaneous belts. They can't give him a match against RDA because Nate beat him so it wouldn't make sense. Therefore he wants to settle that lost so it can somehow justify him getting a shot at RDA. \n\nI'd rather see an Edgar or Aldo fight but I feel like its not going to happen soon.", 
        "nooo!!!! ", 
        "WHERE WERE YOU WHEN UFC IS KILL", 
        "I'm stoked, but I'd prefer it be at LW.", 
        "This is beyond ridiculous. ", 
        "Lmao at Conor getting a rematch but not Aldo.", 
        "What the FUCK", 
        "I rather watch RDA vs Mcgregor or RDA vs Nate for the 155 belt. ", 
        "Boooooooooo!", 
        "200 has to have at least two bona fide headline matches.  Outside  of diaz v. Mcgregor, what match will draw viewers?  Rousey v. Tate?   Anderson silva? Cm punk? If GSP doesn't come back for 200, it's a good sign he's done with mma.", 
        "This is fucking insane from the perspective of MMA as a sport, but won't we all watch?  I for one am stoked about this in a way that makes me hate myself a little bit.", 
        "Makes sense. The last one did big numbers so why not do it again.", 
        "This might be the most head scratching matchup I've ever seen in the UFC.\n\nAn immediate rematch for a non title fight that ended decisively, keeping your featherweight champ away from the title when there are clear challenges who deserve a shot.\n\nHonestly, what a stupid fucking idea.", 
        "Kinda underwhelming card so far.", 
        "I just tweeted them.  Ya'll should do the same.  Told them I'm not interested in this fight.  \n\nThis is dumbest move on so many levels.  And will really kill my interest for UFC 200.  ", 
        "Just don't. ", 
        "Echoing everything that's already been said, Conor *needs* a title defense, and if he wants to be known as cleaning out a division, it *needs* to be against Frankie Edgar.  McGregor/Diaz rematch is a thinly-veiled cash grab.  White should be ashamed of himself, Edgar should wage war over this, and McGregor should clean that yellow stripe off his back and face Edgar like a professional.", 
        "He's never cutting that weight again. I'm calling it. \n", 
        "In which case, he should vacate the belt as soon as possible.", 
        "Good for Diaz though. Another million I bet.", 
        "I hope he is lobbying for equal money with Conor. Dude is as big of a sale as Conor, at least when it comes to this fight.", 
        "he wants to avenge his loss nothing wrong with that. edgar and aldo can fight for the interim title or the real one because lets be honest conor kills himself to get to 145 ", 
        "I'm late, so this will probably be buried but here's my prediction! \n\nMcGregor to vacate 145 - Aldo and Edgar will fight for the vacant title @ ufc 201 or 202. Diaz and McGregor will fight at 155 (@ ufc 200 co-main) for the title shot against RDJ. RDJ vs. Lawler at 170 (main for 200).", 
        "Even though I would like to see this rematch on the LW division, I think it is pure BS to hold the FW belt without fighting in your division and having no excuses not to defend it. At least I know neither Frankie or Aldo are scared homies.", 
        "He's never cutting that weight again. I'm calling it. \n", 
        "The UFC could just pick a random comment on the UFC 200 megathread for a better idea", 
        "Are you fucking kidding me? he lost to an 11-day Nate and clearly got outclassed. Aldo's rematch justification is MUCH more deserved than this and the nate fight wont even be for a belt. fuck this.", 
        "Well I did not see that coming.", 
        "So what if he loses to Diaz again, goes back to 145 and loses to Frankie. That's 3 in a row, then what? You cut him?", 
        "He's never cutting that weight again. I'm calling it. \n", 
        "Why?", 
        "Diaz on full camp, not fucking around would be terrible for conor, is it 170 again? Or 155?", 
        "Pretty bullshit but par for the course at this point.  Should have been Nate v. RDA and Conor v. Edgar.\n\nLooks like Conor lost his McGreGOAT belt to Nate and now wants it back.", 
        "I would rather see Conor Vs Edgar or Aldo but I get why they are wanting to do this. UFC 196 sold 1.5 million PPVs, close to the highest ever. A rematch could go even higher based just on that fight. It will bring A LOT of casual fans in but doesn't appeal to hardcore fans that much.", 
        "I would rather see this fight take place at 155 pounds", 
        "This would effectively make Nate a millionaire lol.  He could lobby for even more money the 2nd time around, especially seeing how well the card did in sales.", 
        "But why? If Conor loses again they killed his momentum completely. ", 
        "Very silly fight ", 
        "a lot of people are saying conor wants this fight, while i don't shadow his every move...i've only heard conor say he'd love to get that one back. not rematch at 200. did i miss something?", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Conor came in with a completely bad gameplan and Nate took advantage.", 
        "Moved the comment to another thread but yea I acknowledge that.  Though that was Conor's cocky fault. ", 
        "What the fuck is going on? Someone tell me why he deserves this rematch. What happened to Frankie or at least Aldo?? I thought Nate wanted RDA?? \n\nThis is a clusterfuck in the making, boys. ", 
        "I'd watch the shit out of it. But I prefer to watch Conor defend his title against Edgar first.", 
        "why", 
        "This seems like a mistake on so many levels... if its true the only way this makes any sense is if Conor's decided 100% not to ever go back to Featherweight and they have something else planned for Dos Anjos at 200. ", 
        "For everyone wondering why it's at WW, I think it's because they are desperately trying to get to Conor vs. GSP. I don't they would have shown GSP at 196 if there wasn't a plan. If Conor wins, he's calling out GSP.", 
        "It's weird the extent of Dana/Conor's aversion to fighting Edgar. It's not like there's no interest in that fight.  ", 
        "He's ducking Edgar.", 
        "For McGregor fans this is a chance at revenge memes...if he loses though, it will be really bad for his brand. It will be interesting to see how he approaches this one. The fight is money, high stakes and Conor had round 1(convincingly) at UFC 196...so I'm not sure why people are so confident of the outcome for this one #WouldWatch", 
        "Winning 5 minutes of a fight then getting pwned into submission means nothing.  He was completely outmatched on the ground and even on the feet.  No reason to think a few months can change that.", 
        "At least make it LW. No ones going to buy the narrative of McGregor going up to WW or would face Robbie Lawler, and this isn't even a WW bout. It's still the same 2 LW who just happen to not have to cut at all to make WW.", 
        "Onlynif it is for the 145 belt, if not gtfo with that", 
        "I guess it did the biggest numbers they've ever gotten so they thought fuck it. Reload.  Why at welterweight again though?  It would benefit Connor a lot by forcing Diaz to come down in weight. ", 
        "I will be watching through my fingers. Which will be covering my eyes. ", 
        "I'm only ok with this if aldo Edgar is on there fighting for number one contender ", 
        "This fight makes absolutely no sense. Just fight Edgar please", 
        "I guess Dana wants to see Conor get pwned again.", 
        "And if Conor wins, what's next?  The rubber match scheduled immediately afterwards?   ", 
        "If Conor wins (and that's a huge IF), I definitely don't see the UFC or Conor giving Nate a third match.", 
        "Nah they would DEFINITELY snub Nate AND his title shot", 
        "BOOOOOOOOOOOO", 
        "For fuck sake the UFC most think they found his own version of \"Thrilla in Manila\" cause m sure there will be a rematch down to road just like Ali vs Frazier all over again. \n\nM going nuts with these match making.", 
        "Great and after that give Conor RDA, then Robbie, then Rory, then GSP, then Condit...\n\nIt'd be great to see Conor get destroyed by the whole roster.", 
        "This is the worst example I've seen in a while of the business vs the sport. \n\nThis is a great money fight, but it makes absolutely zero sense as far as the \"fairness\" or integrity of the sport is concerned. Grant this rematch, but leave Aldo in the dust? Nonsense, if you ask me.", 
        "I'd love to see these \"multiple sources\". This just doesn't seem logical. ", 
        "Nate should have alot of leverage. Would be funny if he fucked up the UFC's plans and refused, making Conor drop down to 145 instead. ", 
        "I can see it.\n\nMcGregor wins, the ridiculous hype train is reborn. He goes on to fight RDA or continue as WW.\n\nIf he loses.....Diaz is the new star. I never saw him as super marketable before, other than his shit talk. But  he's been hyped to hell over this McGregor win.", 
        "It just dawns on me that if this fight were to go through, instead of Conor being the first to hold 2 titles, he would be the first title holder to lose his last 2 fights. That record will never be beaten.", 
        "Now imagine the shitstorm if they put RDA aside and make this the interim LW championship fight... ", 
        "Id rather Conor vacate 145 and start a lightweight run with a top 10 fighter. Anything is better than this. ", 
        "No fucking way this makes no fucking sense please no. \nConor can't afford to lose again and it's too soon for a rematch plus there's so many different fights to make what the hell?!", 
        "If enough people talk on twitter about how they dont want to see this matchup they wont make it. Remember Hendricks/Lawler 3?", 
        "Biggest ppv in the companys history and they are thinking of headlining it with a rematch when one guy convincingly beat the other. ", 
        "Is this for the McGregor weight belt? Or is this at 155?", 
        "Hmm this doesn't seem appropriate. I would love to see a rematch but Conor needs to defend his fucking FW belt. He must really not want to go back to 145.\n\nI'm hoping this is just a rumor ", 
        "haha i know everyone is all up in arms about it but i think this is awesome.", 
        "If this headlines over a championship fight I will loose my mind", 
        "I must be the only one who is excited by this. I hope McGregor can fight better with his reach disadvantage and not gas the fuck out. ", 
        "There must be a clause in his contract. This couldn't be the fight they were aiming for at UFC 200.", 
        "To quote the urban philosopher Tupac, Revenge is the sweetest joy next to getting pussy", 
        "Welterweight again?!", 
        "Surely this wouldn't be the main event?", 
        "Fight doesn't make sense, but it makes sense for UFC 200. If UFC 200 wasn't around the corner, fight wouldn't be happening. He'd probably be fighting Edgar.", 
        "WTF why another ww fight? Should be at 145 or 155", 
        "Nate should push for the RDA title fight.\n\nHe doesn't need to fight him again...he has nothing to gain from it.", 
        "Oh yes, he does. Cash.", 
        "Except tons of cash. He's already said he doesn't care about winning belts he just wants big fights. Makes a lot of sense for Nate, not much for Conor.", 
        "Diaz faces RDA and beats him.\n\nHe then can face Conor again but this time the champion and with much more money involved. Either way he is getting paid but facing Conor again and then potentially losing sends him no where. He has a lot of leverage at the moment and doesn't need to fight him immediately again. The only reason this is out there is because Conor wants to get that lost back and then go on to challenge RDA for the title.", 
        "I take it most people wanted a title defense from Conor?", 
        "How much fucking money will those two make this years of that goes through? That will be like set for life money. It would have to be huge numbers. ", 
        "I would of went diaz vs dos anjos and McGregor vs Edgar or aldo. Both at 200. And if diaz and McGregor both win they can rematch.. even if they both lose they can rematch. Cause really why is this fight even happening again.  Do all the mcgregor fans want to see him lose again?", 
        "how are they gonna let the flyweight belt sit? Dana didnt want Aldo to go up to lightweight without vacating, but changes mind with Conor, cuz he fights a lot. Now it's going to be a while before he defends his lightweight belt.\n\nall about the money", 
        "I hate quick rematch, it's like nate dias choke him by mistake ", 
        "Nobody asked for this, Diaz will beat him again and Conors hype will die. This is the worst possible matchup to derail Conors career.", 
        "Conor won't tap again and will die in the octagon cause a RNC: mma banned worldwide.", 
        "I'm just excited that we get more Nate vs Conor trash talk.", 
        "it'll be for conor's belt. its to get conor's invincibility back up. if conor struggles to get that low nate certainly will. dollar dollar bills y'all.", 
        "Fuck that.", 
        "Why not at 155 though, I can understand why not 145, but why at no weight cut?  Like good for Conor for believing in himself and all, but it seems like he would have some advantage making it at 155 and forcing Nate to deal with a cut. ", 
        "Nate Diaz already fights at 155 normally. ", 
        "Right, but since the last fight didn't go that well you throw in another factor and hope that it negatively effects Nate.  ", 
        "Without a doubt. I'm positive that Dana wants this match-up to try to make Conor the poster child for the UFC again while once again tarnishing Nate's name. I won't argue that. ", 
        "I feel like the UFC is just leaking this \"rematch in the works\", this fight in the works etc. to get a gauge of the public demand for it.\n\nWhenever there is an outcry, they just change the fight, whenever it's praised and demanded by the fans, they make it happen.\n\nWould make sense to \"leak\" it to test everyone as a focus group to determine what would sell.\n", 
        "That's my feeling too. Didn't they do this with Lawler Hendricks? ", 
        "As much as I want Nate to buy his boat was hoping it would be Frankie/Aldo vs Conor ", 
        "But a rematch eventually, but further down the road after Conor had defended his belt while he chases his loss at lightweight.", 
        "How much money will it take for Nate to take a dive and retire rich?", 
        "Kinda ruins the credibility of the sport, titles and rankings have no meaning anymore, even weight classes are going. All about selling PPV's now, ", 
        "Rematch its not  good choice for Conor", 
        "The worst part about this is that if Conor wins, there will be a third fight further clogging the featherweight division", 
        "rematch is too soon i think they want to strike while the iron is hot because it's unlikely diaz beats rda ", 
        "I did not see this coming and also at 170 again? \n\nDoes this mean Frankie vs Aldo interim 145?", 
        "Why not have him defend his title first and then rematch Diaz? ", 
        "Too soon. McGregor needs to take Nate more seriously and make some major adjustments to beat him. ", 
        "\"I'll keep my ear to the ground and see what the fans want\" -- Conor post-196 press conference.\n\nThat was bullshit. Who is really pulling the strings here? Is this more a Conor or UFC decision?", 
        "The more I think about it the more I actually want to see a rematch and it makes a lot of sense/will sell more.\n\nConnor should vacate the 145 belt if he does fight Nate again and let Edgar/Aldo fight for it @ 200, whoever wins that would lead to a bigger fight if Connor went back down and challenged for it in the future and it gives Aldo a chance to redeem himself...a instant rematch after getting KO'd like that doesn't make sense. ", 
        "I like the way you think", 
        "Why are they holding up the featherweight title, its like they don't even care about there championship belt ", 
        "so no Holm Rousey rematch but we can have this one right away huh? mmmk", 
        "Terrible, terrible idea. But the silver lining is that at least Nate will get a huge payday again, probably even bigger this time", 
        "Na man, Edgar deserves this fight as well as Conor needs to jump back down defend his belt and go from there. ", 
        "This can't be real right?", 
        "I hope not. Nate probably wins that fight 9/10 times", 
        "Whoop his fucking ass again. I was OK with him calling out RDA after he ko'd the #1 p4p. I was impressed when he said fuck it and fought without making his opponent cut weight. For the love of god, Aldo didn't get a rematch after 10 years undefeated. McGregor was finished as well. This is bullshit. Also Frankie is just sitting there...", 
        "This is an atrocity. Strip the 145 belt if he takes this fight.", 
        "Connor is playing with house money by fighting at 170, if he loses again, okay, his stock take even more of a hit and his moving up days are probably done for the foreseeable future but he's got a 145 belt to fall back on (they aren't stripping him) and he can continue to talk his brand of shit there and sell fights. If he wins though, then it's open season again, GSP, RDA, whoever else. This is a smart decision.", 
        "Why?", 
        "Thanks UFC, that's $60 I get to spend on something else.", 
        "Honestly, fuck this. Conor should be defending that belt (every other champion has to) instead of doing two non title fights back to back. That's bullshit. \n\nEspecially when his performance doesn't  warrant the immediate rematch! ", 
        "In defense of this rematch, it's the only **huge** fight they can make for UFC 200 with the fighters they have available. It's bigger than Conor vs Edgar/Aldo because it gives the superstar the chance to become a superstar again. If he beats Aldo or Frankie, it wouldn't matter much to a lot of casuals. ", 
        "If Connor loses again he's fucked, are they trying to ruin their golden boy?", 
        "will conor learn not to just stand there and take punches to the head before that rematch. i said it in an ass way but  but that's sort of what happened, right? that's when he panicked and went to the ground.   ", 
        "lets just say if this fight happens im puting 10$ on mcgregor and pray to the gods(mcgregor is a god btw) he uses his kicks more like he did vs chad mendes. I feel like kicks are the way to beat nate becuase if you cant knock him out you can give him some body kicks and make him tired ", 
        "i put money 3 times on mcgregor fights: 2 times against him , one time for him. lost 3 times. the god is against me ;_;", 
        "This is silly.  If Nate dominates him this time round and wins, Conor's stock will drop so much. ", 
        "Yet the guy who was undefeated for 10 years and held the title for 6 doesn't deserve a rematch ...", 
        "Fuck that noise. Give Nate a god damn rematch with RDA, he's earned it.", 
        "Edgar Aldo Rematch for the vacated belt inc at UFC 200, you heard it here first.", 
        "The opportunity cost is expensive here. If conor wins, his stock is back up, if he loses he's officially nates bitch. ", 
        "rip Ultimate Fighting Championship.\n\nhello Ultimate Fighting Rematches.", 
        "We've all gone crazy lately ", 
        "If anything, the last fight was a more representative matchup of a \"real fight\" as it was closer to both fighter's walking around weight.", 
        "I would definitely wait. Bring some buzz back with some Conor wins and let fight Lawler, could be a much bigger fight in a year than right away. ", 
        "This is a gigantic gamble for McGregor. If he loses then there will be a spiral. There's no way in hell you can suffer two bad loses like this in a row. Same went for Rousey when the idea of her coming back to fight Holly without taking a long layoff.\n\nTHE BALLS ON THIS MOTHER FUCKER. Cannot hate on him for this. The UFC Brass are moving the pieces around so don't blame the fighters.", 
        "If this was 1 year later, and at 155lbs, it would be a good idea.\n\nI simply don't believe UFC will be making this matchup so soon, and at WW.", 
        "The UFC's infatuation with the rematch continues.  ", 
        "This is just an attempt to pass the hype torch back to Mcgregor...too bad Diaz is going to derail it for good.", 
        "Conor must be shaking in his boots thinking about edgar. Nate seems like the easier fight", 
        "Rumors of Conor turning down Nate Diaz rematch: Lololol pussy ass conor bitch wants nothing to do with Nate Diaz. Go back to 145 and pick on midgets you pussy!!  \n\nRumors of Conor/Nate rematch: lolol pussy ass conor doesnt want to defend his belt. What a pussy champion only in it for the money.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Woosh", 
        "Yeah I'm an idiot . Whoops ", 
        "When Nate kills him this time it really is the end of the McJoke. \n\nHe can't make FW and he's not going to be putting wins together at lightweight regardless, he'll be remembered as some weird eurotrash dude who made insane weightcuts to 145 and then retired after 2 fights against someone his own size.", 
        "I love how mma fans are lol dude loses one fight after being incredibly dominant for 8 and he's trash all of a sudden. I don't like this rematch but to call Conor trash just shows how much you know about mma.", 
        "Bunch of hand picked fights against midgets dude. \n\nHe's the Roy Nelson of FW, I've always said he's a joke and will be exposed when he fights real fights.", 
        "Nice, you should be a politician with the talking points you are spewing. \n\nJose aldo, max holloway, dustin porier chad mendes. That seems like an impressive resume to me.  But of course, mma fans have the memory of a goldfish. ", 
        "Don't see a normal sized human being there. \n\nNone of those dudes could hang at lightweight, Aldo would be fuckin' destroyed if he weren't at midgetweight. ", 
        "Mcjoke, midgetweight..... dude you are so fucking lame. \n\nDustin porier is now a lightweight and Aldo could def fight at lightweight also. I swear the Nate diaz fanboys are becoming as unsufferable as the McGregor fanboys were before he lost.", 
        "you're mad that your fighters a fucking joke who can't hang in real fights. \n\nhe fought 3 tiny little babies and got fucked like a bitch when he a fought a regulation-sized human. \n\nHe is McJoke, he has a fuckin' movement coach for gods sake. \n\nHe's fuckin done after this fight I promise, I bet you 60 fuckin bucks he retires after his next beatdown from whoever he fights unless he cuts to midgetweight again thats his only bitch option \n\nps fuck you you fuckin loser", 
        "Since we are just using talking points from the fighters we like let me say this mighty internet keyboard warrior.\n\nFrom 20/20 to half a mil flat. Congratulations Nate, you are a millionaire now. \n\nConor bless!", 
        "thats the cycle my friend. \n\nEdit: the guy you replied to looks like a special type of neckbeard. So ignore and move on ", 
        "Sorry if I'm in the minority but I'm super excited for a full month of shit talk.  Sign me right the fuck up... I could care less about franky or rda ", 
        "Nate better demand the million this time and give Connor the half. But hopefully this just doesn't happen at all so the 145 division can keep rolling. It's ridiculous that Dana says he wants to legitimize the sport and then does shit like this.", 
        "I really hope Nate just neck cranks Conor into retirement.", 
        "Please no. As a Conor fan, I really want to see him defend the FW belt. The rematch would obviously sell, but we don't need to roll it back just yet. There's no traction nor reason for this other than my man's bruised ego \ud83d\ude13", 
        "Is there any way to stop this the way fans stopped Lawler/Hendricks 3", 
        "Conor better start watching Condit/Nick on a loop.  That strategy is the only chance he has at beating Nate.", 
        "This is a horrible fucking idea.\n\nDefend at 45 and vacant.\n\nAlso, if and when you rematch Diaz, do it at 55 for fuck's sake.\n\nUFC *200* is going to be headlined by a fight no one wants to see? A rematch of a fight that just happened and wasn't close? A non-title fight with two guys fighting outside their division?\n\nThis is worse than anything Bellator has done, honestly, cause at least with Bellator legit fights aren't being written off in the name of quick cash-in.", 
        "So when is he going to defend his FW belt", 
        "I knew this was coming. McGregor hinted as much.\n196 broke almost all records. Ofc they wanna do a rematch.\nPlus Conor has an itch to cure. It'll guess worse if he goes 0-2 on Diaz, though.", 
        "He will.  Conor doesn't hit hard enough to knockout Nate (not many people do).  And Conor isn't going to miraculously become a better grappler than Nate.  This time Nate will knock Conor out.", 
        "I don't see conor recovering from this mentally or career-wise  if he loses. Happy for Nate getting paid though.", 
        "This has to be a joke.", 
        "I think I speak for nearly everybody when I say I hope this falls through.", 
        "Dana you greedy motherfucker. You don't give a shit about giving other fighters opportunities, leaving Frankie out to dry.", 
        "[The only thing that comes to mind.](http://i.imgur.com/TnQRX6v.gif)", 
        "This is \"Hendricks V Lawler 3\" level of clueless match making by the UFC. \n\nI'm hoping this gets ashcanned real fast. ", 
        "Hate this", 
        "Wtf why ?? ", 
        "There is no way this fight gets made.  ", 
        "Please no.", 
        "Terrible decision. Why go double or nothing against Diaz? If Diaz wins a second time, Conor is going to look ridiculous, regardless of how cool of a comeback video he releases.", 
        "Wow...makes no sense.", 
        "UFC 200 boycott... Until they inevitably announce some fire on the rest of the card ", 
        "Oh fuck off! We are having immediate rematches for non-title fights now? This is absolute bullshit. ", 
        "Can't wait for all the nut hugging from Dana again. \"He's so fearless. Who steps up two weight classes?!\" Just defend the fucking belt or vacate it.", 
        "Oh come on. I think at this point the champion needs to defend his title, not try to get a win over Diaz. Vacate the title and let Aldo vs Frankie happen. If you want to galavant between weights, I am all for it. Just don't go doing rematch after rematch and screw everyone else because of the all mighty dollar. Fuck you Dana, fuck you too McGregor.  \n  \nRDA vs Diaz all the way.  \nMcGregor vs Edgar.   \nFill the rest of the card however the hell works best. No more rematch after rematch. UFC has enough talent to have lots of exciting fights. Let's get this show on the road.\n\n", 
        "Conor is a masochist apparently.\n", 
        "Ah here, this is a load of bollox. \n\nI was so looking forward to McGregor v Edgar, or to a lesser extent, v Aldo. ", 
        "Well, looks like all the people around here that swore up and down McGregor would never actually defend his 145 belt were right. What a joke. UFC, if you're seeing this I hope you see how little the real fans actually care to watch this fight.", 
        "I like this announcement, just because it made you all lose your shit..  I DON'T GIVE A FUCK MOTHERFUCKERS!", 
        "Can we all tweet span Dana saying no way?", 
        "Such bullshit", 
        "yea and I bet they would've given Nate the rematch if he lost huh?! this is such fucking bullshit. might as well do away with belts. what's the point of having them if you dno't need to defend and can just get one and fight out of your weight class all the time?!", 
        "Retarded", 
        "Mind blown", 
        "Wow, this is the definition of \"retarded\"", 
        "this is to try and save face for connor and start up the hype again but if connor loses it will be bad for him. defend your damn belt jeez. also the first fight was a comprehensive win no need of a rematch.", 
        "Nooooo", 
        "NO, why? NO, fuck, just NO, please for fuck sake don't make this fight, he's going to have to give up the FW belt if he's doing this, he's holding the FW division hostage right now, this is exactly what I was worried about when he wanted to go up immediately and fight RDA", 
        "This doesn't make any sense. I don't understand.", 
        "please no", 
        "I guess they made a lot of money on the previous fight.", 
        "UFC clearly wants Conor to win so they can setup the 2 titles at once thing again. Man, this won't be good for Conor. Nate is gonna come in even better than last time.", 
        "no no no no", 
        "Please, no! I don't want Conor to lose again.", 
        "[Dana just looking out for his baby boy](http://sportige.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/You-broke-my-baby-e1457255849341.jpg)", 
        "Yeah after all that muscle mass, 45 is in the past now", 
        "First major mistake booking I've seen from ufc in a while.  ", 
        "I like Conor, I really do, but he is going lose even worse. He lost in the second round to a Nate Diaz that hadn't even been training. What makes him think he can beat Nate with a full camp?", 
        "weirdly this actually makes a lot of sense, who isn't going to  watch this", 
        "Honestly it seems like the UFC has lost control of McGregor. Why not have this fight at lightweight? Diaz really isn't a 170er and McGregor certainly is not. I get that it would make money but how much more would it really make than McGregor/Edgar? At the very least he has to vacate the belt. ", 
        "Boycott UFC 200", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/A0LdCm4.jpg", 
        "No fucking way will the MAIN EVENT of UFC 200 be a non title fight rematch between the featherweight champ and #5 lightweight at welterweight.     \nThe matchmaking has certainly changed over the last few years.     \nFuck. ", 
        "Wow, not even interested in this in the least. Nate left no doubt that night and finished off Conor in impressive fashion. All these frickin rematches are killing momentum in various divisions. This one is leaving me particularly salty. I mean it's 200, come on! Get some title fights together. Nate vs. RDA, Conor vs. Frankie, anything.", 
        "What the fuck.", 
        "How does Conor win this fight, I really can't see him putting Diaz away and making it five rounds with the longer and taller fighter is a big gamble.\n\nOh well, another massive paycheque for Nate, good for him. Hopefully he can win via strikes this time around.\n\nMcGregor really needs to defend that FW title, holding up an entire division is just asinine. \n\nHow exactly will McGregor build interest for this fight on the mic? Nate is just gonna call him a wrestler wannabe and talk about how he tapped like a \"bitch\". ", 
        "200 is already ruined. Nates gonna win again and the rest of the year will be shot. ", 
        "This shit is getting old. ", 
        "Do you want to see Conor lose two in a row? Because this is certainly one easy way to do it. ", 
        "Lame.", 
        "Whut why...", 
        "So now if the guy that the ufc wants to win, loses the fight he gets an immediate rematch. And people were saying Aldo didn't deserve a rematch, but Conor does? ", 
        "This is such a terrible idea ", 
        "Not a fan of instant rematches and not a fan that someone can just hold on to the belt and not fight, Dana would not allow anyone else to do that.\n\nOverall it does not make much (or any) sense.", 
        "Can't help but feel this is a bad move on McGs part. How is he supposed to build up this fight, he can't shit talk about Nate or make out he will ko him with the left hook, we know he cant. This fight will all be built on him redeeming a loss that was this year, which narrative wise is rubbish. Him defending the FW belt would make as much or more money. I would rather see the Edgar fight, but would end up watching whatever fight happens.", 
        "Unconfirmed, remember. \n\nI find it odd that, if it does get confirmed, that McGregor didn't give the loss some space. I would've thought that the logical reaction would've been to drop back down, defend the title and then maybe come back. \n\nJust a bit strange imho.", 
        "At 170 again? That makes no sense.", 
        "I don't understand at all, but Nate gets another big payday if true.  So good for him.", 
        "This is a poor choice for the sport, and a good choice for quick $.  Two of the best sayings in business:\n\n1.  Get the money up front\n2.  Take the money and run\n\nUFC is definitely doing that if this happens...  I question the long term thinking though...  this is a little strange.", 
        "no thanks. connor should go back to 145, defend and then go from there. will probably be way too difficult to get to 145 by ufc200.", 
        "I feel like I'm not the only one who, assuming this is true, will be pretty let down if this is the main event for UFC 200..There's so many other good match-ups that can be made for that. Who, other than Dana's accountant, thought this would be a good idea? It just feels forced.", 
        "Fuck everything about this", 
        "Are you fucking kidding me?", 
        "I don't know what to think about this.  Huge money fight obviously, but McGregor is out of his mind.  Then again, I think he would get his ass whooped by Edgar back at 145 lbs which is really his only option at this point.  I just don't know where McGregor would go from here with another loss.  No way he would physically ever be able to make 145 again.  I guess become a lightweight and try to get back into contention? ", 
        "Not on board with this one. Maybe later on, that fight was decisive enough.", 
        "Whyyyyyy is this fight at welterweight.... And Whyyyyyy is this fight even happening!!! Save the rematch for later! \n\nI feel for Frankie right now. \n\n", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/6we9GRi.gif", 
        "I really don't wanna see the rematch. As much as I wanted to see the first bout, everything seems settled here and I'd rather seems McGregor fight Edgar/Aldo or someone at LW, while Diaz fights Dos Anjos...", 
        "Does anyone expect a different result (cept maybe the casuals)?\n\nNate will starch Conor with a full camp. I predict Nate starting even quicker and gets the job done handily by round 1.", 
        "Fuck UFC and their rematches. This is so stupid if this is actually happening.", 
        "UFC 200 is looking like dog shit ", 
        "Hadn't even thought about it until now, and I now that I think about it, I kind of want to see it.\n\nI do think Conor could do better. I do think he would most likely lose again, but I think he could most certainly do much better. \n\n", 
        "People say that McGregor move up 2 weight class, when in fact he was at his healthy weight, him and diaz both walk around 170, mcgregor is just cutting more than diaz, the match a lightweight will be the same results as the 1st because mcgregor shown that he can't KO diaz", 
        "UFC fans should riot if they really do this. It's stupid on so many levels. We should not tolerate this! ", 
        "I know Edgar is still hurt and won't be able to really book a fight in good conscience for at least a month maybe. But wtf about Aldo? ", 
        "This fight would *kinda* *maybe* make sense if it was at 155 as a title eliminator to fight RDA. and even then it's pushing the limits of sense.\n\nAt 170, it makes no sense. Hell, it makes negative sense.", 
        "i loved the first fight - from the moment it was announced to the very moment i'm typing this - BUT i don't wanna see a re-match as it makes no fuckin sense right now\n\nye maybe after a few fights if both fighters keep wining but right now - that's probably the last fight i want to see either of these fighters ", 
        "If he loses again they use the same excuse since its at 170.  And the hype doesn't die all the way . If he loses to Frankie ( which he will) the hype is 100% done . I feel like the UFC is milking him ", 
        "Why is everyone so certain about this? Frankie is an excellent fighter and is the hot hand right now, but let's not forget what McGregor has done to that division. This is definitely the fight I think most of the fans want to see. I don't understand why they don't just give it to the poor guy.", 
        "Fucking goofs.", 
        "I don't think it will happen,  and this is one of those wrong reports but I might be wrong in the end. ", 
        "Poor Edgar. ", 
        "I'll just leave this here https://www.reddit.com/r/MMA/comments/4a8lbq/thoughts_on_this_potential_ufc_200_main_event/", 
        "my reaction https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sw6ndZNLYUA ", 
        "How soon before Frankie says fuck it and signs with bellator?", 
        "Fook off!", 
        "This is bullshit of the highest order.  If this happens I'm not buying that ppv, they are losing their minds with the rematches.  Aldo, Tj, and Jones deserve a rematch.  Weidman and Conor do not.  Just watch them give Tate a fourth rematch when Honda wins back the belt.  Fucking ufc has been my jam forever, but their business decisions are retarded.", 
        "fucking lame dude, and is Conor crazy? He got dicked by a no camp Nate.. Full camp Nate murks him in 1.", 
        "...\n\nY tho", 
        "no no no =(", 
        "If this happens it will be interesting to see Conor talking shit to an opponent who's already beaten him.", 
        "Does anyone here at /r/MMA actually *want* to see this? If so, why? I'm curious. ", 
        "He doesn't believe he can beat Aldo again or Frankie. He loses the belt he lost everything.  Only way to keep the train going is one more fight with diaz then challange the 155 or 170 champ.", 
        "Fuck this. UFC is so short sighted with it's main event match making, they are going to ruin a special moment in history to sell a ppv that sells itself. Strip Conor of his belt, what a sore loser.", 
        "I lost some respect for Conor now. This is obviously his revenge fight that he begged Dana to put together. Please don't let this happen, MMA gods. ", 
        "Or maybe he learned a lot from fighting a bigger man, and wants to put that newfound wisdom to the test.", 
        "Did he become a black belt all of a sudden????  ", 
        "Against the same man? Not buying it. It's a redemption fight. He should go back down to featherweight and defend his belt at least ONCE before this bullshit. ", 
        "How is Conor going to sell this fight? \"You may have won Nate but I made more money then you, TREE time more \"", 
        "I know, what is the prefight pressers going to be like? Is Mcgregor going to walk out all cocky talking shit to someone who just smoked his ass. Plus, Nate owned the prefight banter except for the intial presser, \"touch butt in the park...\" is one of the greatest shit talking lines ever.", 
        "Nate after the 2nd fight \"bet yall motha fuckas ain't surprised this time, STOCKTON WHAT?!\"", 
        "Wow what a terrible idea.\n\nI'm sure Nate is fucking stoked about this though.\n\nNate on a full camp? I got him by TKO this time in the 2nd.", 
        "No matter what it's going to be an amazing fight so I don't really give a shit about this goofy move.  My loyalty isn't to who \"deserves\" what it is to the one true Just Bleed God.  ", 
        "Man, I don't want this. He got whupped by a bigger no-camper. Now go back down and defend that belt. \n\nI thought it was OK to go up to 155 for a quick title shot, even if audacious and unprecedented and even if it caused a bit of a delay for the next guy in line at 45. Hey, it was new and exciting. And I thought it was fine to sub Nate or anybody else in to save the card, and to fight at 170 to make it work - who cares. But it didn't work out and he needs to go back home now and do his job or give up the strap.\n\nFights answer questions and this one has already been answered. It could possibly give us a different answer this time but it seems like a sideshow and a distraction now. Didn't work out - go home. Also, if he were to lose again, it seems like they'd be squandering their top asset's value.", 
        "Will someone please think of the contenders?!", 
        "A rematch between McGregor and Diaz is, at this point, the absolutely most stupidly thing imaginable. It would be just awful. If it happens then the ufc have turned their promotion into fucking wwe. ", 
        "Why?", 
        "Please no please no please no please no please no please no please no please no please no^please^no^please^no^please^no ", 
        "All of McGregor's success in his weightclass on 11 days notice.", 
        "This is a lose-lose for Conor.\n\n1. If he wins, then, so what? Well, he gets Dos Anjos next, I guess, but he's still 1-1 against Nate. Rubber match? C'mon, now.\n\n2. If he loses, RIP hype train, bruh. ", 
        "If he wins, he avenges hes only loss in the UFC, hype train back in full steam. How is that a lose lose scenario? Well if he loses to Edgar its still RIP hype train. I dont get the grabbing of pitchforks. This fight is intriguing as fuck, the fact that Conor accepts this fight after getting beat decisively by an 11 day trainjng camp diaz. And the fact that its at 170. ", 
        "> I dont get the grabbing of pitchforks\n\nWoah, easy there. I just don't find the fight that interesting, especially with Frankie waiting down in 145. I guess Conor's not cutting that much, anymore.", 
        "This is bullshit. \n\nNobody wants this rematch. It doesn't make any sense at all and if they are selling and want a big splash number @ 200 they are miscalculating with this.\n\nOr, they are right and the fans just have grin and bear it.\n\nIt's bullshit. ", 
        "Its sad when Shammy/Royce 4 makes more sense than the fight you are booking.", 
        "I don't fucking care! It's going to be an awesome fight and I think McGregor has personally asked for a rematch and will do lots of changes. This will be a totally different fight, mark my words!", 
        "There won't, ", 
        "Let's see then. I think we can agree that it's gonna be an awesome fight anyways. And the stakes are higher than before. McGregor needs a win and Diaz would be the king defeating McGregor back 2 back.", 
        "Sigh, what a waste. ", 
        "curious to hear what the Conor fanboys think about this. ", 
        "I think its the most interesting fight out of all the options. From my perspective, i dont get the outburst of fans about not fighting at featherweight. I want to see the fight that intrigues me the most, and to me this is more intriguing than Edgar or Aldo. Dont downvote me im just sharing my opinion. ", 
        "I wouldn't downvote anyone because of their reasonable personal opinion. Thanks for answering my question.", 
        "What the fuck.", 
        "Jesus Christ, defend the fucking belt/  This smells like Conor won't be able to make 145 again.  I have always been saying, 1 fight out of the division isok, but 2 in a row when you're the Champ (and healthy and able to fight) is nonsense.  He lost going up, time to come back down and defend your belt.  \n\nIf they make this fight, he needs to vacate the belt because now the division is going to get held up for someone not even fighting in the division.  Would Conor be the first champ ever to vacate a belt without defending it?", 
        "This is great for Conor. Everyone thinks he has no chance. ", 
        "Because he doesn't.  Pretty much everybody on the horizon is capable of beating him.\n\nRDA will pummel him and TKO him by the 3rd round.\nEdgar will outpoint him and keep him on the ground.\nNate will submit his punkass again.", 
        "He was to cocky the last time, He definately will perform better being the underdog.", 
        "So he's not going to defend his belt? I don't understand the point of an immediate rematch that had a definitive outcome.", 
        "This is some bullshit i really hope it dosen't happen.", 
        "This time, at 250!", 
        "Wow.... why.... defend your belt.", 
        "Wow. Extremely disappointing. Conor vs. Frankie would have been fucking fireworks.", 
        "Wow def a interesting and big money fight honestly even tho I don't think Diaz can he should try for the title and cut down. But man if Conor loses this he's done IMO.", 
        "There is no need for this rematch right now.", 
        "Farce. Go back to your division and defend your fucking belt Conor", 
        "I don't follow any MMA religiously but has reddit turned on McGregor now that he lost or something? Was under the impression he was a poster boy in these parts. I always thought he seemed like a good fighter and person.", 
        "He just won the featherweight title, harped on Jose for being an inactive champion, and is looking to take his second fight outside the featherweight division without having defended his title, despite two solid contenders being available (Jose and Frankie). \n\nIf he doesn't want to fight at FW anymore, he should vacate his title and let the FW division continue. ", 
        "Retarded.", 
        "no one needs this but conor", 
        "Do not want.", 
        "Conor will be attending Nate's Sunday Jiu Jitsu class in preparation for the fight .", 
        "Fuck this fight. \nConor vs Frankie \nDos Anjos vs Nate\nUFC 200", 
        "This is just bullshit.. TOO SOON!", 
        "They don't want the casuals to know Nate is a LW. That is their only excuse.", 
        "Nate is gonna fuck Conor up even worse this time. ", 
        "Man I see this going badly for Conor. Nate already exposed his boxing, grappling, and wresting. Also, I think Nate will have the upper hand in the pre fight shit talking. I mean there is nothing that Conor can say to try and get to Nate. Nate owned him in all of the exchanges except the first press conference.", 
        "BOOOOOO!", 
        "I wonder how much they are offering Nate to take the fall against McGregor so they can justify McGregor fighting RDA for two belts. If this fight happens fuck Conor and fuck the ufc. I'll still watch because I love mama but fuck them if Frankie doesn't get his shot.\n\nEdit: even Aldo getting the shot is better ", 
        "before people accept rage on this sub. Lets look at it this way Diaz vs McGregor @ 155 lbs sets up for the 2nd fight of the night dos anjos vs khabib for the title @ ufc 200.\n\nI like this rematch --- if its at 155 and not at 170. ", 
        "I think people should stop moaning and realise we get to see this again", 
        "Fuck Dana and fuck the UFC.", 
        "McGregorweight is real", 
        "Love it.", 
        "I'm on the other side. I like it. ", 
        "Nate's gonna whoop that Irish ass again, that fight should of gone to Frankie....", 
        "If this doesn't solidify that Dana is on Conors nuts ... I don't know what does.", 
        "That's some bullshit.  Take that fucking belt away from this hack.", 
        "April Fools day come early this year?", 
        "no one will say conor doesn't have balls, the mental fortitude alone to fight the guy that bested you, is pretty rough\n\n\ni remember in sparring after someone got the best of me, i would be angry, furious at the guy, and then some fear would settle in, reality being what if i do, do something to him? he beat my ass in a relaxed setting, when all of it is on the line, he can take me out\n\n\n\nimagine Conor now, the guy has huge balls, now for Nate another big payday, who would have thought Nate would be here, he was thinking of retiring", 
        "Fun and exciting fight! The first one was entertaining, I'm sure with full camps, the second will be even more fun! Can't wait!!", 
        "Fuck I thought I wouldn't like this fight but the first thing I felt was excitement", 
        "I think Conor wins a rematch.", 
        "People asking why? What happens when your biggest draw loses? People don't think he's as special anymore. So the only way to counter that is fighting and defeating the guy who beat him. It makes the first fight look like an off day or something. Then the comeback story for McGregor will lead him to RDJ or Aldo/Frankie. Everyone loves the story. Hell, they've made like 10 Rockys using this formula. However, there's no writer who can simply write the outcome here. McGregor has a tough test with Nate and I'm not too confident he will upset. But don't think for a second this isn't a rational decision by the UFC executives. ", 
        "Conor wins, you kill Diaz's momentum. Diaz wins, Conor's stock may never recover. And for what? This feels short-sighted on so many levels.", 
        "@Shaunalshatti???\n\n\nedit: no seriously, your post looked super familiar https://twitter.com/shaunalshatti/status/710865367275409408", 
        "although the instant rematch makes sense in $$ , you are right in long run it does not make sense at all . Conor has everything to lose and not much to gain . If diaz wins again he would be at top of UFC food chain \n", 
        "**I WANT THIS**", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I think he's going to take his time and be more timid. Who would want to be embarrassed again by the same person", 
        "Fuck that noise. Boycott ufc 200.", 
        "Joe Rogan - OMG, OMG, Wowww", 
        "Nice shot! ", 
        "Probably won't happen but: \n\nLawler vs GSP\n\nConor vs Nate\n\nCondit vs Nick \n\nWould be pretty sick. ", 
        "Nick is banned till August", 
        "Nick won't be back In time ", 
        "Right, forgot about that. ", 
        "whatever maybe this frees it up for Edgar vs Holloway", 
        "I actually have no problems with that.", 
        "No respect to both fighters, but I really don't want to see a rematch now. Maybe in a year or two. I think Nate deserves a title shot. I think Conor needs to defend his belt.", 
        "Seems to me like McGregor doesn't want to risk the mystique created by his one-punch domination of the featherweight GOAT. Wouldn't surprise me one bit if he never fights at 145 again in his career.", 
        "I hope for Conor's sake it's at 155 to at least level the playing field a bit.", 
        "...really...?", 
        "This is a bummer. I would think RDA was supposed to be his last fight as featherweight champion, and he'd vacate afterwards. The timing on that fight the first time was really the only way it could have worked.", 
        "I'm betting McGregor is really pulling for this fight. Wants to avenge the loss. Would be in character. Would be difficult to hype up the rematch, but if he loses, it's not a big deal. If he wins, he can say \"Even champions can slip and fall\" or some shit.", 
        "I reeeeealy liked Joes idea of Holloway/Aldo and Frankie/Conor..\n\nOh well!", 
        "Theres no way. I have faith the UFC won't make this terrible decision.", 
        "What baffles me about this is Nate wants it, Conor wants it, Dana wants it and McGregor fans want it but Diaz fans don't. Am I the only one who thinks this is weird as hell?", 
        "Lol Diaz fans want it, McGregor fans don't, they don't want their champ losing to a relatively unsuccessful fighter again(unsuccessful as in no titles and hadn't really made that big a name for himself until now)", 
        "I refer you to the comment threads in this post, and most of r/MMA for the last week....all you 209 flair fan boys saying RDA over Conor! Clearly shows you've been living in 2015, where belts matter.....star power is more important just like Floyd and boxing.", 
        "No I think Conor would beat RDA. I'm a Conor fan. I'm also a Diaz fan, and I think Conor taking a rematch would be stupid of him. Diaz has all the reason in the world to take it because he can demand a much bigger cut of the fight than he even got last time which was still much bigger than any fight he had before. It's all upsides for Diaz, what's another loss on his record? If he loses, he's still hella respected for winning the first time, and twice as rich. If he wins, he's got clout, which neither Diaz bro has had before.", 
        "McGregor balls! That's why he's so sweet, never running from a challenge!", 
        "I'm a Nate fan but I'm cool with it. Really wanted to see Aldo rematch though ", 
        "Cool with it? I'm a McGregor fan and I fuckin hype out my mind! This is going to be sweet, sweet revenge! Cholos everywhere will cry.....Aldo vs Frankie for the 145 belt is gonna happen, everyone other than Conor in his camp has said 145 is never happening again.", 
        "It's math,  go against a black belt when  you have shitty ground game and you will get chocked out.  So yea trust me I'm cool with it too. ", 
        "If Conor loses again that will be brutal lol", 
        "probably roided so hard to get big, he cant go down to 145 that quick. ", 
        "Connor is the Roman Reigns of UFC. Gotta make him look strong. ", 
        "I think it's brilliant.  What else is Conor going to do?  Fighting at 145 does almost nothing for his brand at this point.  A 145 win would be no big deal and a loss would be devastating.  Fighting Nate creates a huge potential upside with about the same or less of a downside as losing at 145.\n\nAs a side note, this is a HUGE win/win for Nate.  Destroy Conor again or lose and set up a huge money trilogy.", 
        "So he thinks fighting Nate after him having a full camp will increase his odds of winning?! Now he's gone from Mystic Mac to Mystic crack.", 
        "fuck logic, im all about this fight.  Conor should vacate the featherweight belt for sure though", 
        "but at what weight? 170 again? or down to 155?", 
        "185 so fans can make more excuses for mctapper", 
        "If I were Nate, I'd consider throwing this fight, setting up a trilogy payday down the road.", 
        "Fuck this noise. It'll be a one sided beating again. ", 
        "Holy shit.\nCrazy fight.\nIf Conor looses its gonna really take the shine of his star.\nI thought he'd do a safer fight like Aldo", 
        "This is a horrible match-up for Conor, it's not gonna go any better than the first fight. The only reason it's happening is because Conor can't make 145 anymore and the UFC knows he can't beat RDA or Lawler so Nate is the only big fight they think he could win.", 
        "what the fuck?", 
        "LET'S GOOOOO", 
        "I LIKE A McGREGOR VS DIAZ rematch!!!\n\n\nRound 1 McGregor was a fucking monster, and if you asked me in between Rd1 and Rd2 who was going to win the match - I would have told you McGregor.\n\n\n**But what I want to see is 155lbs, NOT 170lbs.**", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "america owns the world. your country sucks kys", 
        "Hill Billys run the moonshine stands..nothing more\n\nnot even americans would let the hill billys take over..\n\nhill billys being probably 1% of americas population", 
        "Have to respect Gunni. he doesn't shy away from tough fights, and Tumenov is a very tough fight.", 
        "He apparently asked for the Maia fight which was...great of him.", 
        "What's your point? He deserves respect for not shying away from a challenge. ", 
        "Which is what I said.  This is why we have /s tags. I didn't use one cause I was being sarcastic. \n\nThough I can't deny that I'm a little bit amused by how the fight went. ", 
        "Exactly, he's probably the only one who agreed to take this fight. Tumenov is a high risk, low reward fight for anyone in the top 15.", 
        "I'd say he's a high risk, medium reward fight. He's dangerous enough to make the fight exciting, even if you lose. There is value in putting on a war. \n\nHigh risk low reward would be getting smothered by Aljamain. ", 
        "[Gunni's very happy face](http://media.ufc.tv/fighter_images/Gunner_Nelson/NELSON_GUNNAR_AD.png)", 
        "If Tumenov can pull it off against a grappler of Nelson's level,  that would prove to me he's a serious contender.", 
        "Ive only seen one or two of his fights but does he not come with the Russian fighter preloaded world class sambo? ", 
        "Nah these russians come in two types, world class boxing or world class sambo. He's the former.", 
        "He's actually a Master of Sport in both boxing and Karate. ", 
        "I don't know that Tumenov was a Master of Sport in Karate. I thought it was Boxing", 
        "I am also happy about it.  Sounds like a damn good fight.", 
        "How good is Tumenov's ground game and TDD? I've only ever watched him fight people who try to strike with him. ", 
        "He's a Sambo guy I think, they usually have great grappling and submission skills, he is likely solid in both areas.\n\nAlso take this with a grain of salt, but I feel like I remember him sprawling on whoever he fought last a few times, but I may be mis-remembering or confusing him with someone else.\n\nEdit- Apparently I have Tumenov confused with someone else.", 
        "Tumenov is a boxer", 
        "Then as long as he makes sure Nelson doesn't get on top he should be ok. ", 
        "He's not a sambo guy, he's a boxing/karate/hand-to-hand guy.", 
        "Look at his first fight in the UFC.", 
        "Alcantara got the better of him on the ground?", 
        "Yes his grappling won him the fight.", 
        "Alcantara had a big size advantage though no? Isn't he back at MW? ", 
        "It's not his strong point, that's for sure.", 
        "He looks like a breast cancer survivor in the thumbnail", 
        "Love watching Gunni fight. Always entertaining!", 
        "I wouldnt be happy to fight Albert, he's a tough as fuck ", 
        "Albert is such a crisp striker. If he can keep it standing I think we're gonna see some magic.", 
        "I think he's doomed", 
        "Gunnar taking The L on this I think. ", 
        "Ha, those were Nelson's exact words when Rogan asked him about his feelings on losing the decision to Rick Story. For some reason that response (\"I'm very happy with the decision [that I lost]\") always stuck with me. Guess it's just his catchphrase. ", 
        "I guess he could find a submission, but damn this is a tough fight for him.", 
        "Tumenov is pretty scary with his boxing.", 
        "He was very happy before the Maia fight too ", 
        "This guy was brilliant. I miss him hyping up fights.", 
        "Is the UFC and Fox really done with him? I miss him too.", 
        "Brutal childhood", 
        "[Bonus from his AMA yesterday](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/4aw5ni/i_am_the_american_gangster_chael_sonnen_fighting/d14116a)", 
        "Chael did an AMA yesterday? Motherfucker, can't believe I missed it. ", 
        "It's okay, I trust a true Irishman missed it for a noble cause. ", 
        "I genuinely thought he was holding back tears. Chael is the best.", 
        "\"Who's gonna drive today???\"\n\n:'(", 
        "This is Oscar worthy", 
        "He is a phenomenal actor, he really had me going until the second sentence of the first incident.", 
        "Honest Question: Why is Chael not getting movie roles (aside from that DeNiro/Stallone shit)? Where the fuck is his agent at? \n\nHe has very good comedic timing", 
        "If that was all improv it speaks even more to his ability.", 
        "Pretty sure he never used to improv anything but it is still very well thought out and performed. ", 
        "Damn he really struggled. This totally changed my perspective of him.", 
        "Wasn't expecting this... I'm in stitches.  Chael being Chael", 
        "Chael>Conor", 
        "Better than alot of actors out there", 
        "I always thought the mean streets thing was a joke. Boy was i wrong. Good to see him turn it around though.", 
        "A shining example of a man coming from nothing. The American Dream truly is real ", 
        "Damn these onions...", 
        "Fucking amazing", 
        "Chael comes from a similar background to todays popular rappers.  Mad street cred.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7eA_TyogeU", 
        "God Chael was so much more entertaining talking than anyone else in MMA ever.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "He is from the mean streets of West Linn, OR (upper middle class small town) he talks about seeing someone publicly littering a gum wrapper and someone jaywalking. Talks about his father making BARELY $100K and his maid not coming every single day. His neighbors were twins they got only one mercedez for their birthday (they had to share).", 
        "He's right. ", 
        "No he's not. Conor was lighting Nate up right until he got careless.", 
        "What do you mean by careless? He was throwing everything he had and couldn't knock him out his hands started dropping as Nate started landing better shots and he started getting tired. It doesn't matter what happens in the first when there are five rounds in a fight.", 
        ">Conor was occasionally grazing Nate until he got punched in the face too much and quit.\n\nFTFY\n\n", 
        "Kind of like how Mendes was dominating conor and then got tired too right?, except Mendes had an excuse cause he took the fight on 13 days notice.  But this time conor has no excuse. He is playing touch butt in the park instead of actually training. Nate is an endurance athlete and he puts a pace on guys, and they break like conor did", 
        "Never got careless. Got tired. Got beat ", 
        "Oh man, here we go again.", 
        "Conor can knock out any fighter in any weight class.", 
        "Not Nate Diaz at WW ;)\n", 
        "He also has no business fighting Diaz again. Conors bravado and ego are gonna be his end. Lost in 2 rounds to a superior martial artist who had 11 days notice and @ UFC 200 Diaz will have a full camp and still be the superior fighter.  Cant wait until he loses again and no one cares about him anymore.", 
        "Very bold statement, now that Conor got his ass handed at WW...", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I'm sorry, did you watch the fight? \n\nMcGregor did well, but not *that* well. ", 
        "After that 1st round he was going to lose no matter what", 
        "I wish I could give you negative gold for this stupidity right here.", 
        "What did they say? ", 
        "You fans are fucking pathetic. He got fucked up.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Yeah... they will only accept the version of reality that makes them feel good and nobody, other than me most likely,  will agree with you because the precious fake \"points\" are at stake.  You know, the points used to down-vote off topic subjects that instead get used to silence ppl when someone doesn't like what they say. ", 
        "He gave Diaz all he had, and it meant nothing. The moment Diaz got the upper hand Conor was done. He got demolished.", 
        "Of course you fan girls don't give any credit to Nate. You're basically saying that he lost because he made mistakes, not because Nate fucked him up. Bullshit.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "Ok, don't scream at me.", 
        "Agreed, he got beat but it wasn't a one sided fight. People are getting too extreme about it ", 
        "He got tagged with punches throughout the fight, and his cardio put him in danger of being knocked out. He went for a take down, got hooked on a super slick leg trap, and ended up in mount before turning over and getting choked out. \n\nThat is *very* different than getting \"caught\" or making a fluke. His mistake was fighting Nate Diaz at 170lbs. \n\n", 
        "> That is very different than getting \"caught\" or making a fluke. His mistake was fighting Nate Diaz at 170lbs.\n\nI mean, I think part of it was that he fought Nate Diaz's game.  I have a hard time envisioning the fight would have gone much differently at lightweight... ", 
        "By a dude that is a regular LW and got his ass handed to him in the WW division and even struggled at times in the LW division.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I agree, I'm not a fan of how black and white people are being. There is a clear change is tempo of the fight after the one punch that staggered him. Fight could had gone either way un until that point but it looked like Connor was going to get it before that punch caught him", 
        "I agree, but to me it seemed as if you were argueing that McGregor does have place at WW. My bad, though.\n\nI do agree with you that if there's a finish, people forget the rounds before that if they were in favor of the opposition. But i just was trying to state that McGregor has no place in the WW division now and i hope he does in the LW division in the future. Because, my god, those cuts for Conor to Featherweight looked unhealthy to me.\n\n", 
        "If you think Mac got \"caught\" then you're a serious fuckin noob. See Aldo/Mac or GSP/Serra for the definition of getting caught smh not even up for debate", 
        "McGregor got 'caught' by more than just a punch.  He was getting tagged the entire fight.  Go watch it again and count the punches Diaz lands in the first round, it was actually pretty even if you ignore the big cut.\n\n\n\nIn the second round Diaz handed him his ass.", 
        "mcgregor should have picked cerrone instead.  in the 2nd round he landed a nice left to nate's body which visibly hurt him.  i guess he didn't notice because there was no follow up.  if he had fought cerrone, he could have went after that soft liver all day.", 
        "So all of the sudden Conor couldn't win a fight at 170?  He sure as hell isn't a \"natural\" featherweight.  This is overreaction, Diaz isn't even a welterweight, that fight proved Conor is human, not that all the sudden 170 is unattainable. \n\nIf he didn't load up on his left and try to knock Diaz out in the first round, things very likely would've gone differently. \n\nEdit: not that anyone will calm the fuck down, but I'm not the butt hurt Conor fan some of you seem to think I am.  I loved it when he lost, great moment.   I can see by the tone I conveyed why a lot of you probably think so.  I just think the overreactions are silly.  Anyway, bring the hate bitches, it won't make your dad love you any more!! ", 
        "If he focused on the legs more...", 
        "And less capoeira wheel kicks too, as he said himself. ", 
        "And if he didn't fight like Conor McGregor...", 
        "He said that himself man, people are able to change strategies when they realize they can't knock out people with left.  ", 
        "He's never missed weight at featherweight. \n\nHe's a true featherweight.  He won fights at lightweight in CageWarriors but that's a minor organization.  The only good fighters he's fought at lightweight are Joe Duffy and Nick Diaz.  He lost to both by submission. ", 
        "He didn't fight Diaz at lightweight, he probably should have but that would've shaved what, a few pounds? \n\nMy point is just people overreact, why that has to be controversial is beyond me.  Judging by the comments now that he lost one gd fight, it seems I'm right about that.  I'm not some butthurt Conor fan, it's just silly how bandwagonny people are after losses (or wins very often). \n\nWe dont know what would happen say in the RDA fight.  That's all I'm saying, maybe he gets destroyed, but hes also gotten better in the last couple years than when he fought in Cage Warriors. \n\nHe struggles to get down to 145 and maybe benefits too much on fighting smaller guys.  Maybe Conors really a decent lightweight as opposed to a world class featherweight.  There aren't hard definitions on any of this. \n", 
        "It has nothing to do with overacting.  A featherweight who cannot beat top 5 lightweights has not place fighting at welterweight.  \n\nHow can you possible think that McGregor would have any good chance fighting at welter? ", 
        "Nick Diaz? ", 
        "\"Nick Diaz, you're taking everything I worked for mother fucker\"", 
        "Nate my bad", 
        "He fought Nate at WW ya goose", 
        "He's never fought Nate Diaz at lightweight. He fought him at 170.", 
        "The only fighters that fight at their natural weight are the heavyweights and even some of them cut.  Conor is no more a natural featherweight than GSP is a natural welterweight.", 
        "I don't argue weight cutting is the norm, I'm arguing that even given that he probably shouldnt be fighting at 145, he looks like death.\n\nAnd the ultimate point is it's just silly to me to make these proclamations over one fight.  Diaz is a lightweight as well, so the whole \"this proves he doesn't belong at welterweight\" is off base.  Maybe he never wins a fight over 155, but that hasn't been shown just yet. He got stopped by a skilled 155er.   Wouldn't Diaz and Conor rehydrate back up to 160/165 anyway? ", 
        "Thats the point. If he fought at 170 his opponents would be 190+ lbs. There isn't a WW in the top 10 that Conor would be a good match up for. ", 
        "Im willing to bet he does better in the rematch was Diaz, which apparently they're trying to make happen.\n\nSo say he does way better, just for the sake of argument.  Does that \"PROVE\" anything?  All I meant originally was this didn't tell us a lot, nobody thinks size wouldn't matter, but it's just a factor.\n\nTl;Dr Why you gotta destroy my Lawler vs Conor dreams :(", 
        "If you want to go all mma math about it...Diaz got rag dolled by Rory, so you could argue that since he beat Diaz and Diaz beat Conor that Conor wouldn't fair well at welterweight against the top 5+.  \n\nStyles make match ups though, so I'm sure Conor could probably beat some of the lightweights and welterweights, but it'd have to be a good match up for him.  His ground game is seriously suspect after the Mendes and Diaz fights.  And he didn't have the power to put Nate down.  So he'd fair best against someone that wants to stand and bang, someone that's going to stand still and let him hit them, and someone with a weaker chin than Nate.", 
        "Well said.  I agree across the board. ", 
        "By a LW who was on vacation.", 
        "*books vacation*             \n*sits on the couch*          \n*is happy*             \n^(*noms a burrito*)", 
        "Insert ad hominem one liner about steroids here that ignores his actual point.", 
        "Don't forget the strawman!", 
        "If McG could get Lombard and Romero's steroid guy on the phone and get the hook-up, he could fight at welterweight.", 
        "Conor has better hookups, that's why he's not been caught.", 
        "As one of the most tested fighters in the company his hook up is fucking unreal", 
        "Ya, it's called the ufc. ", 
        "Holy shit imagine if that happened. It could kill MMA or set it 10 years back", 
        "It already did, the fighter was this little known guy called Vitor Belfort.\n\nAnd the only thing it did was sell PPVs in Brazil. It didn't set MMA back ten minutes lol", 
        "He's on steroids", 
        "I'm on steroids", 
        "You're on steroids!", 
        "You're all on steroids!", 
        "That's fucking illegal. ", 
        "Fuck this I'm going to start my own weight division...", 
        "Calm down Rich Franklin.", 
        "Rich Franklin vs Rumble Johnson for the RumbleWeight Championship.", 
        "Yep, cause Rumble can't make Franklinweight.", 
        "Well, he did once, but he gassed out in the first round.", 
        "No shit, make him defend his fucking belt already. This pending rematch is bullshit. Conor just got his ass beat on 11 days notice, what makes people think he will do better when Nate has a full camp?", 
        "I swear some people don't realize that going up 15 pounds is a lot as well - that completely fucked his fitness - he got caught with the shot that rocked him and ended the fight because he was gassed to fuck. There was a huge difference in what they weighed on fight night lol", 
        "Conor was walking around at 177 before the fight, and Nate weighted 183 going to bed the night before the fight so he was a little lighter than that going into the cage.\n\nThey weren't nearly that far apart in weight.\n\nAlso I don't know that I buy that the extra weight fucked him over that much on the fitness side because he was prepping for a fight at LW for months before hand and really all that happened was he got to fight without cutting weight. I think he punched himself out, now he has to deal with Nate again when Nate has a full camp and can really push the pace on him.", 
        "One of the people at the event claimed there was a 15 pound difference on fight night - if that's true, THAT'S MASSIVE in the fight. Nate Diaz obviously done incredibly well and I think if the rematch happens it won't go 5 rounds and it will still be a close affair like this fight was as Diaz was getting ready to go possibly.", 
        "Don't wanna sound like a Conor fanboy, I'm really not, but the \"but he was already preparing for a LW fight!\" argument comes up a lot.\n\nBut it's very possible, probably even, that he was ALSO going to be ill-prepared for THAT fight in terms of his body. Is there much history of athletes gaining ~10 pounds in ~3 months and being competitive immediately at the highest level? I doubt it. ", 
        "> Conor just got his ass beat on 11 days notice, what makes people think he will do better when Nate has a full camp?\n\nRegardless of the merits of a fight if it was set up again, if they did fight, I would hope that Conor would have a different gameplan, and there might be a few lessons he learned.  ", 
        "I'm curious to see the press conference and interviews for this one. I don't know what Conor would have to say.", 
        "That's part of the head scratching for me on this one. I think the UFC thinks that this is the biggest blockbuster fight they can make but I think the casual fans will be less receptive to Conor's talk now that he lost, and especially since he is fighting the guy who just beat him.", 
        "McGregor's ability to promote fights is incredible, so I have no doubt that he'll be able to frame his loss to casual fans as just an \"inefficient use of energies\". I think along with it being UFC 200, casual fans will tune in.", 
        "At least he should vacate the FW belt, it's ridiculous to hold up a whole division chasing non-title fights", 
        "he won it 3 months ago. idiot", 
        "He's not really holding up the division. Aldo only fight 1-2 times per year so if McGregor can defend the belt by the end of the year then it's fine. Match up edgar vs Aldo for now so that there's a clear number 1", 
        "Conor can fight and is willing to fight.  There is no reason to take 2 fights out of the division.  He is holding the division up now.  1 fight we all understand, but he fucking lost.  Now a 2nd one.. that is holding up the division when at least 1 of the 2 contenders is ready, willing and able to fight at UFC 200", 
        "Aldo did that because of injuries, Connor's deliberately holding up the division by fighting non-title fights at a different weight class. Big difference.", 
        "The difference is one sits on the side lines and the other generates coin.", 
        "Not that much of difference tbh. The end result is the same.", 
        "Exactly. The belt isn't defended either way. ", 
        "No it's can't vs won't. ", 
        "One is a choice and the other is not a choice. HUGE difference regardless of results. ", 
        "Connerr should just leave the UFC and start his own promotion where he holds all the belts.", 
        "He's had the belt for 3 months, chill people ", 
        "Yeah, but he isn't focused on defending the belt at all. Rather he is gaining weight which will make it even harder for him to cut down to 145. The longer he has these welter weight visions. The further he distances himself from feather weight. Its not like he can gain all that muscle to get up to 170 then 3 months later fight at 145 without starving himself.", 
        "He didn't actually gain any weight for the Diaz/RDA fight. He weighed in at 168, his walkaround weight. It takes a while to add muscle", 
        "> It takes a while to add muscle\n\nUFC fighters don't seem to have a problem with it.", 
        "> The longer he has these welter weight visions.\n\ndoes he, though ? he'd have to really be in a bubble made by his own ego to not see that his future is at LW", 
        "I agree, if doesn't fight at FW at 200, I'd like to see the FW title going up for grabs. ", 
        "I wouldn't want to see Conor ragdolled by Lombard for sure. He needs to stick either at 145 or 155", 
        "Ragdolled? He'd fuck Lombard up and not give him a chance to grapple. He's too fast for Lombard.", 
        "please tell me you're joking ", 
        "Lombard, while he was on steroids, wasn't able to ragdoll Josh Burkman in his last fight. Just remember that. ", 
        "Kind of hard to ragdoll a guy running away for the majority of the fight. Why Lombard get's shit for Burkman not engaging I will never understand. If one guy is only interested in not getting KOed and doing everything he can to make that happen but not try and win it's going to be boring as hell.", 
        "You need to re-watch that fight if you think that's how it went down. ", 
        "josh didn't want to get near hector. and hector threw jake shields around pretty easily. conor doesn't have very good tdd. hell think of when nate fought rory at 170 he got suplexed like a baby. conor doesn't have the strength or grappling to compete at 170. probably doesn't have the wrestling to compete at 155 either. and can't make 145 any more. hmmm. oh well.\n", 
        "Josh was literally standing in front of hector trading punches, what are you talking about. ", 
        "He was able to decisively dominate Jake Shields though. That's something not even GSP was able to do. He also KOd the shit out of Palhares do yeah... I think he wouldn't have that many problems with My Gregor ", 
        "M'Gregor", 
        "Lombard is the only person I have ever seen out grapple Jake Shields in MMA other than possibly Okami(the judges didn't see it that way) and I have watched MMA for about 20 years.", 
        "For all the shit Shields get, he's easily a top 3-5 WW of all time.", 
        "Top 3-5WW of all time?? GSP, Condit, Lawler, Rory, Matt Hughes, Hendricks, Nick Diaz, just off the top of my head. All superior mixed martial artists. ", 
        "He faced 3 of those guys and beat two.\n\nAnd, don't get me wrong, I love Nick, but his WW record is underwhelming at best.", 
        "Beat Lawler in 2009, but I doubt he can beat him today. Same with Condit but and was in 2006. Either way I think Lawler and Condit go down as better welterweights than Shields. And if you think Shields is better than Diaz, well that's your opinion and I disagree. ", 
        "But are they now? I don't think so. Shields has done a ton at WW and beaten a lot of top guys. Sakurai at his peak, Okami, Condit, Paul Daley, Lawler (MW), Hendo (MW), Kampmann, Sexyiama, Woodley, and Maia.\n\nNot to mention, Lawler began his ascent to his peak in Strikeforce. He wasn't a pushover. For Condit, it was his 18th fight. He wasn't a greenhorn.\n\nOkay? Why? I think Nick doesn't really fit well in a weight class arugment. Plain and simple. His best win was the Gomi win, which got overturned but whatever. And that was at LW.", 
        "Holy shit, I just realised this fight (however unlikely) could actually happen. Imagine the shit talk from McGregor's end, then imagine him being mauled by Lombard.", 
        "P4p worst rape in ufc history", 
        "I don't know man Henderson vs DC is hard to beat.", 
        "Ryan Couture vs the UFC.", 
        "That fight was a joke, I agree.", 
        "After today's announcement it wouldn't shock me if Dana scheduled McGregor to fight Jon Jones and a Grizzly Bear at the same time. ", 
        "What was announced ", 
        "McGregor V Diaz 2 for UFC 200 ", 
        "That was a rumour. No accouncement. It might be complete BS. ", 
        "I'm personally hoping that they get so much negative reaction that they don't go through with it. Just make Conor stop ducking Frankie and fight.", 
        "*sigh*", 
        "Rumors of McGregor Diaz 2", 
        "Man has a point to be fair. I think 170 is just too big for him and he loses manage of the reasons why a cut to 155 makes sense. I believe he is simply too big for the 145 cut at this point. ", 
        "Lombard is right, he might literally kill Conor if he fought him.", 
        "Ignoring the steroids issue, take a look at [McGregor](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/4FOGVUX9W_M/maxresdefault.jpg) and then take a look at [Lombard](http://www.sherdog.com/image_crop.php?image=http://www.origin.sherdog.com/_images/pictures/20131018035451_5D3_6435.JPG&&width=640&&height=480). They are both the same height. This 170 talk is nonsense. ", 
        "Look at the difference between Couture and Sylvia. Skill matters more.", 
        "One of them is natty though. ", 
        "yes Connor is, lombard is on steroids.", 
        "How the fuck is that relevant? \n\nThe point is that 170 is waaaaay too big for Conor. It's people like Rory and Hendricks. 170 makes no sense at all for Conor.", 
        "To be fair Lombard has been on PEDs his whole career", 
        "Not even close", 
        "I really loathe the 'look at the body' comparisons. What does it prove? People without excellent physiques win fights all the time. Roy Nelson and Mark Hunt looked worse than nearly every other opponent they faced, and racked up a lot of wins. Anderson Silva doesn't look like a bodybuilder, and hes the GOAT. Jon Jones legs are so skinny, I wonder how he even walks. The 'eye test' doesn't mean shit. \n\nLombard is on gear, and would win a bodybuilding competition against McGreggor. That's all those photos prove to me. ", 
        "also flexing weigh in photo vs #notevenflexing not weigh in day ", 
        "What you're saying is true, but Lombard is literally twice the size of Conor. Size/strength plays a huge role in fights, especially when it comes to the ground game. Conor was gassed when he walked in at 168 or whatever he was last fight. Can you imagine if he actually tried to bulk up to fight at 170? Most fighters at 170 walk around at 185-195 before cutting. It's a ridiculous concept to think that McGregor could compete at WW. ", 
        "If Connor bulked up for the long run at 170, he'd probably do much better than if he took it on extremely short notice. ", 
        "Nobody's talking about physique, they're talking about size. \n\nLombard probably cuts a huge amount of weight to make 170 and Conor didn't even make the welterweight limit.", 
        "I always think about the fact that Rumble used to fight 170 whenever people bring up Conor as a welterweight.", 
        "Lombard looks like he cut a lot of weight though, and conor looks full af", 
        "That's the point...", 
        "There are two scenarios I would like to see here\n\n\n1: Conor and Nate fight and the outcome is the same.\n\n\n2: Nate gets injured 2 weeks out and Conor isnt able to swallow his pride. Accepts a real Welterweight as a replacement", 
        "Heh in comes Carlos Condit...", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/acf9eLC.jpg", 
        "Lombard/conor shouldn't be sanctioned ever.", 
        "Man Fuck Conor McGregor", 
        "Oh Jesus, not to be rude, but Lombard would absolutely wreck conor. ", 
        "It's insurance incase Conor loses again.  Then he can move down to LW and still be \"a top contender\" that was just too small for Welter.\n\nIt's stupid.", 
        "Except Diaz is a LW. He would move back down too.", 
        "Diaz is a lightweight that said he felt stronger and faster at 170 and  a lightweight that people weren't saying weight was an issue with if he took the Lawler fight.\n\n", 
        "> i\n\nDiaz is a big 155er that has to cut to make 155. All WWs walk around 190 and make big cuts, Conor being a natural 155 is a small 170.", 
        "Conor also said he felt stronger and faster at 170, doesn't mean he should keep fighting at that weight.", 
        "Yes of course.  But it wouldn't surprise me if his contract has a stipulation about another fight at WW.", 
        "then it would be diaz-conor in a loop ", 
        "Best of 5?", 
        "best of 7 ", 
        "Makes sense, Dana says he wants to be like the major sports leagues and they all have best of 7's.", 
        "155 will be not be fun for Mcgregor, either. ", 
        "I honestly see him defeating everyone (including Nate in the rematch) except Khabib. ", 
        "I honestly see him pooping a golden ferrari convertible, driving it off a cliff and leaping out of the sun roof while deploying a parachute and landing on the 50 yard line of the superbowl during the half time show.  \n\nImaginations are fun.", 
        "We should at least find out..", 
        "Agree. This match up is all about the money, no surprise. Who will RDA fight? The rematch kind of makes sense, but its not like it was even a decision. Mcgreg vs Pettis/Cerrone are good fights. RDA vs Diaz? Aldo vs Egdar? Mgregor is a beast at 145, at 155, still good but not as magical and if he gets beat down again this hurts the brand. ", 
        "Hector is right and I think Conor would struggle at Lightweight. ", 
        "I don't see McGregor winning any fights with the top 5 WW , not to mention the top 3. ", 
        "i see him having a hard time with top 5 of LW let alone WW. ", 
        "He got beat by an out of shape LW at WW. It's fucking crazy to really think Connor could win against Condit, Rory, or even woodly. ", 
        "Woodley would probably beat him the fastest out of those 3. I'd imagine it would be a repeat of the Koscheck fight.", 
        "Agreed. UFC is spreading him to thin.", 
        "you know what, let CM fight at WW, hell make Lombard his first fight there.  If he couldnt take a Nate diaz punch, wonder how he'll fair vs lombard", 
        "He might be right about that, but there's \"no place\" in UFC for a roided up cheater either", 
        "Based on the number of guys who pop and come back, and the views of many involved in the sport that many athletes are on something I think it would be safe to assume you're wrong. Lombard being a cheater also doesn't make McGregor any more or less suited to fight at WW.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "You're wrong suggesting there's no room in the UFC for him or other cheaters...its full of them. ", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I have as much say in what Dana and Zuffa do as you do. You stated your opinion as if it was a fact, that's all I corrected you on. And I agree, Lombard being a cheater has nothing to do with Conor being a small WW, that's why your original comment was useless.", 
        "He did his time being suspended. Do you feel the same way about felons? One strike and you're in prison for your entire life?", 
        "Ok why don't you go bitch about it to dana than rant here. ", 
        "With the risk of sounding like one of his godawful fanboys but is it just me who really thinks if Conor does not try to prove his stupid prediction right and instead just kicks the shit out of his front leg/ have a decent gameplan mcgregor very likely wins the fight?", 
        "This is somewhat true ,but you have to think that Diaz has a full camp too, i think that kind of kills it", 
        "This is not a wild theory this goes for literally any fight ever. Have a decent gameplan, stick to it, and you have a good chance at winning.", 
        "Neither does he.", 
        "???", 
        "Have you seen the motherfucker? He has the body of a lightweight and the muscle of a heavyweight, he would never sustain that without steroids", 
        "Have you seen his frame? \nLombard is thick af, cuts a lot of weight to make 170.\nHe certainly does not have the body of a LW.", 
        "For fucks sake guys he's not moving up to the Welterweight division. They're just agreeing not to cut much weight again. ", 
        "Conor would knock Lombard out clean. ", 
        "LMAO", 
        "u r right.", 
        "Uh, why are you saying \"u\"? it's not Lombard who actually posted this here.", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/dnB4qqk.jpg", 
        "http://i.imgur.com/oA1g814.gif\n", 
        "\"Honesty was never my friend\"", 
        "I have a feeling we're going to see this picture a lot in the near future.", 
        "might as well sticky it to the home page.", 
        "I'm sorry to break it to you dude but you've been looking at this photo everyday for the past few years.", 
        "Yep, whoever made it originally was spot on.  It's been around and relevant at least a year or two by now.", 
        "In the movie, wasn't the caption on the picture a lie from the main character to himself in the future? I'm not 100% sure but I think so.", 
        "I wonder how many actually seen the movie Memento, where the meme came from. It's one of those movies that flew under the radar IMO and is really good. ", 
        "The word memento is the only one that begins with meme. I mean like maybe it is", 
        "I have, and strongly recommend others watch it.  Great concept to the movie.", 
        "Is it really under the radar? I've always thought of it as a cult classic type film. Anyway I agree it's really good.", 
        "Yeah, there even is a fan movie out there in the right order. Memento is one of the biggest movies out there.", 
        "It's been widely considered a good movie for quite some time. ", 
        "\"You can have anything you want, if it's okay with my sweet baby angel conor.\"", 
        "[\"He's perfect.\"] (http://m.imgur.com/r/ufc/oE5Z62r)", 
        "Sweet baby angel Conor is fucking scared of Frankie tho", 
        "I'm not so sure it's Conor being afraid as it is Dana and Co being afraid.(If anyone, for that matter.", 
        "Pop pop knows best, eh?", 
        "If there's one thing Conor isn't, it's scared. Even when he maybe should be. Dude has irrational confidence. ", 
        "Probably more afraid of dying during his weight cut. ", 
        "\"You can have whatever you want, except for the one thing that you actually want.\"", 
        "Sounds like my ex whenever I told her I wanted to grab a bite to eat. ", 
        "Anything you want.              \n...no, not that.     \n\nNo Chinese, either. Or Indian. ", 
        "This will really tarnish Dana's reputation of enduring honestly   ", 
        "Your reputation for poignant sarcasm will likewise carry a dark blot from today. ", 
        "Poor Frankie still thinks this is a sport, it's sports entertainment, gotta get a gimmick and make social media pop to get fights, not earn them by winning!", 
        "Frankie Mysterio Jr. ", 
        "[I'd totally mark out if Frankie came out with this song for his next fight.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oUSsfLDECKE) \n\n^with^the^mask^on^too", 
        "Just give him Brock Lesnar's entrance, to fuck with the crowd. Go full heel", 
        "\\#wouldwatch", 
        "^^Terms ^^and ^^condition ^^apply", 
        "It starts at 1:04", 
        "Dana's lies are too numerous to count. Remember that he promised Miesha a shot at Ronda after Miesha defeated Jessica Eye, then went back on his word and gave the match to Holly.\n\nCorporate scumbags know only the language of money, not honesty. They will lie and backstab anyone for that end.", 
        "... Why didn't you embed the time that he says it? I'm not watching an 18 minute video", 
        "Oh I'm sorry Mr President", 
        "I don't think he realized how special you are and how valuable your time is compared to the normal person", 
        " Did you read the title? It's pretty specific. Why watch the entire post-fight press conference? ", 
        "Because he says it in the first minute and ten seconds of the video ", 
        "I'm on my phone, sorry. Next time I'll reddit better", 
        "It's okay. Was just weird considering the length of the clip", 
        "Dana's a goof", 
        "\"Frankie was never my friend\" - Dana", 
        "Anything but a fight it seems. ", 
        "*\"you can have anything you want except the thing you want the most.\"* - Paul Heyman ", 
        "I really want to make a supercut of all the shit Dana White has said over the years. ", 
        "Dana is basically a car salesman.\n\n\"Yes, I know the ad says you can lease it for $119 a month but that's only if you qualify for the items listed in this teeny tiny text at the bottom of the page.\"", 
        "[Timestamp at 1:03](https://youtu.be/NQTGfNcoJwc?t=1m3s)\n\nhttps://youtu.be/NQTGfNcoJwc?t=1m3s\n", 
        "He didn't say when he could get it though. ", 
        "God damnit this makes me mad.", 
        "Posnot ", 
        "Anyone who believes what Dana says deserves to be rented, ridden hard and put away wet.", 
        "\"As long as it has nothing to do with my precious Connor\"", 
        "Dana will literally say anything, even if it is a complete and obvious lie. Like saying how the Reebok deal was so good for the fighters and they all told him they liked it.", 
        "Can have anything but a good old fashioned leprechaun fight ", 
        "\"Dana, ill take a LW title shot\"", 
        "Whoa. Why does another fighter have to do what Frankie wants him to.  McGregor is the one fighter in the UFC who makes his own choices.  Are you all newbies piling on the fuck Dana bandwagon jus for kicks.  Makes zero sense.  This Reddit story is like a click bait title.  ", 
        "\u0b67\u0f3c\u0ca0\u76ca\u0ca0\u0f3d\u0b68 DANA LIED \u0b67\u0f3c\u0ca0\u76ca\u0ca0\u0f3d\u0b68", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "why its not even official right now", 
        "That's true but even the talk before was suggesting it would be Aldo", 
        "18 min video....no", 
        "It's at the 2 min mark, just watch from there. ", 
        "Things change.", 
        "It's good to be the King", 
        "Well he did call Frankie Edgar for the fight vs Mcgregor, but unfortunately he declined. ", 
        "That combo is a mother*fucker*. Yin and Yang.", 
        "Flim and Flam", 
        "Two great tastes that taste great togther", 
        "Excitement is off the charts on the sapp/Alvarez scale.", 
        "Firas talked about Cormier/Jones 2 on his youtube channel\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZxGCoa3z6M&index=3&list=WL", 
        "i didn't feel like i got a lot of technical breakdown. actually most of the technical questions came from the e-mail questions. firas spent a lot of time talking about his relationship with jon how jon was a good guy. when discussing takedowns it seemed to be the only time he was purely in a technical breakdown. ", 
        "yeah I don't know if it was a publicity stunt for jon jones or what but that video turned me off", 
        "Two of the best and most passionate, this will be amazing!", 
        "/u/fightsgoneby reffing", 
        "You ready? You ready? Have at it!", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "How on earth is robin not technical? So far the only breakdown that was lack luster was conor vs RDA. Other than that, his breakdowns are pretty damn informative. ", 
        "Let's bring em on, come on!", 
        "Ooh, \"Have at it!\". I like it. You got any kinda thing you're doing with your hands, a la Yamasaki?", 
        "This like Batman v Superman without Ben Affleck!", 
        "Post about upcoming breakdowns? For sure just post the actual breakdown when it's done. This is as dumb as teaser trailers for trailers. ", 
        "A true ambassador of the sport. ", 
        "[**@Firas_Zahabi**](https://twitter.com/Firas_Zahabi):\n>[2016-03-18 18:52:05 UTC](https://twitter.com/Firas_Zahabi/status/710901604497670145)\n\n>Yes sir count me in. [#roundtable](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23roundtable) [*twitter.com*](https://twitter.com/robinblackmma/status/710896172555235328)\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4azsop%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "Both these guys have such a wealth of knowledge that I prefer listening to them separately.\nI hope they do an individual breakdown also.", 
        "I'm almost as excited for this as I am for the actual fight.", 
        "I think I just came.", 
        "this should contrast Robin Blacks energy nicely.", 
        "awesome ", 
        "We don't need a breakdown.\n\nJust have the damn fight.", 
        "A true ambassador of the technical questions came from the e-mail questions. firas spent a lot of technical breakdown. actually most of the best and most passionate, this will be amazing!", 
        "good googly moogly", 
        "Omfgs", 
        "Just had a breakdown orgasm", 
        "cool. hope firas doesn't go off about how he knows \"good guy\" jon jones. ", 
        "I agree. His last video was basically a G-rated version of him sucking Jon's dick", 
        "These two need a regular podcast together.", 
        "Me: I'd rather see a title fight than wait on Rousey.", 
        "Breaking: Dana White calls Tate a true champion for not waiting for Rousey and taking a fight instead of a pay day. ", 
        "Then bashes her manager after she loses", 
        "Understand, no established fighter who truly loves fighting wants to wait for rousey, no one even knows if she'll fight again", 
        "Would be weird if she retired. It would be Gina Carano all over again: face of women's mma suffers one big loss and calls it quits.", 
        "At first she refused to talk about the loss, threatened to retire if she lost again, now shes refusing to even talk about fighting and is shooting movies in hollywood and putting fighting to the side completely. I dont expect Ronda to retire but i wouldnt be suprised", 
        "Tate vs Cyborg at UFC 200", 
        "And completely ruin whatever chance Ronda has of getting that belt back? No. They'll wait for Ronda to come back, have her fight, then introduce Cyborg as the new murderer at W135. ", 
        "It would be a catchweight fight and catchweight fights arent allowed to be for the belt", 
        "Cris won't be a 135er", 
        "Unless she's amputated an arm or something, you're absolutely right.", 
        "cyborg is gonna be on 198 and she doesnt have enough hype (to casuals) to realistically make 200\n", 
        "shes going to be on 198... ", 
        "At what weight?", 
        "yeah, I just said that?", 
        "Did the UFC add a women's 145 weight class in the last month or so? What did I miss, because Cyborg isn't getting to 135 ever!", 
        "Catchweight, her and a bantamweight fighter would probably meet at 140 lbs", 
        "So her career strategy is fighting at a catchweight between the highest class and one that doesn't exist? I'm going to go out on a limb and says that's a terrible business plan.", 
        "What do you mean? She fights at 145, the biggest UFC division is 135, is it not fair to meet at 140? Especially a big 135er like Holly", 
        "Has the UFC brought in a champion from another promotion for 1 fight ever? Not that I can remember, if she cant make 135, why would they sign her for 1 fight if they've never done it before? You're surely not suggesting they create a 140 class for 1 fighter who wouldn't do 250k ppvs unless she was fighting Ronda.....Ronda if she even comes back, and wins the 135 has said for 3 years when Cyborg can do 135, I'll fight her. \n\nIt sucks for Cyborg but 145 just isn't marketable because it's so shallow, she's not ever coming to the UFC unless she can make 135 and that's just not physically possible for a woman who walks around at 165.", 
        "She's already signed with the UFC.  She signed with Zuffa last year and they pay her a small fortune to fight in Invicta.  They even drug test her with the USADA testing.  So you're right it would be unique to bring her in to fight at a catchweight or 145 but she's also already in a unique position since the UFC doesn't typically pay fighters to fight in other organizations either.  They're entertaining bringing her to UFC 198 for something (at 145 or a catchweight) because it's in her home town and she'd be a draw but they don't need to \"sign her\" for it because they already hold her contract.\n\nAlso, small note about 145 being shallow.  It is shallow but less so than it appears from the current state of Invicta's division.  Bellator signed a chunk of the 145 talent pool last year in their first attempt to cash in on WMMA which is why the Zuffa threw a ton of money at Cyborg.  There could've been a half respectable 145lb division but it got butchered in a promotional pissing contest.", 
        "shes [signed] (http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/cris-cyborg-justino-is-signed-to-the-ufc-032615) [already] (http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/cris-cyborg-justino-is-signed-to-the-ufc-032615) , the UFC has her under contract so bellator doesnt get ahold of her\n\n\nAlso, do you not know what [catchweight] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catch_weight) is? Its a fight outside of all weightclasses where the weigh in number is agreed upon before hand. Mcgregor Diaz I was supposed to be 165 at catchweight, the UFC wasnt creating a 165 division, catchweight is its own seperate division that technically doesnt really exist.\n\n\nLastly, Holly said she wanted to fight cyborg, and shes a VERY big 135er who wants to fight asap, so it works out perfectly", 
        "Yes, I know what a catchweight is but your McGregor Diaz analogy  doesn't work because they both can make 155 or 170. What your saying is going to happen would have been like the UFC signing Lesnar to 1 fight at 280 against Couture in 2008 or pulling Uriah from the WEC and having him fight Penn at 150 before the 145, 135 and 125 weight classes existed.\n\nThat's how you make analogies that work, btw.", 
        "I'd say she's easily in the top 5 most recognizable female fighters, but that's sadly probably agreeing with you. I'm hoping Tito's dumb ass hasn't angered Dana too much because Dana is about as petty as a jilted 14 year old.", 
        "The problem is most casuals only know ronda holly and maybe meisha, in fact, if you google invicta, all that comes up is watches", 
        "> invicta\n\nShit, overpriced watches imo.", 
        "The division is so much better when Ronda isn't there.", 
        "[deleted]", 
        "I think you overachieved a little there.", 
        "Not really. She really does help keep things competitive and interesting, when she does chose to fight. There's nothing wrong with her taking a break. It's not like she went into hiding with the belt. She brings a unique skill set and a lot of media attention to a division that would otherwise be mostly ignored. ", 
        ">competitive and interesting\n\nNot to me when she actually fought. Pre Holly, her last 4 fights were extremely predictable she was going to win.", 
        "I love how a champion being dominant seems to be being used as a criticism here. \n\nDamn it Ronda you should have been sandbagging like Holly obviously was vs Pennington! /s", 
        "a lot of people thought Cat Zingano could beat her, and a lot of people thought Sara McMann could beat her. Some people even thought Alexis Davis could beat her.", 
        "Lets be honest. Nobody thought Alexis Davis could beat her. McMann and Zingano were stiff tests though.\n", 
        "It'll be interesting to see how the others in the division will do vs Ronda when she comes back. I wonder if they'll all take the Holly approach and whether Ronda will still be dominant", 
        "I prefer divisions with long reigning champions. Much more dramatic when there's a loss or win. I think most people seem to agree based on the state of wmma preronda and now.", 
        "Most divisions get stale with a dominant champion. It made it worse because of her last 3 fights only one of them had a chance.\n\nI know Cat is really good and I love her as a person however after she said that she thought a flying knee would be an exciting way to start a fight with an elite grappler, I have a hard time seeing her as a contender.  That is the worst gameplanning/fight IQ ive ever seen.", 
        "it depends, gsp clearing out his division decision after decision became stale.  best thing to happen to ww division was him retiring.  ronda on the other hand was pretty exciting, it's just that the division is so shallow.  if she had a bunch of tough fighters to keep fighting, it would have been pretty awesome too see someone go on a run like that.", 
        "> Most divisions get stale with a dominant champion. \n\nYou think so?  I think some of the better divisions are where the champs are dominant.  Welterweight and middle weight are great examples where dominant champions did not result in a cleaned out division.  ", 
        "> You think so? I think some of the better divisions are where the champs are dominant. Welterweight and middle weight are great examples where dominant champions did not result in a cleaned out division. \n\nWelterweight was pretty much dead, when St. Pierre was running wild. To me the coolest thing were the Outsiders coming in to freshen things up (Nick and Jake Shields). I like it much more now, with Lawler we have a champ that could lose against any contender. \nMiddleweight was boring too until Chael came.", 
        "Hm, good point.  I imagine that the mergers of strikeforce and WEC had a pretty big impact on rounding out the depth of alot of the UFC weight classes.  ", 
        "i mean her big wins against misha and nunes came after just getting her shit smashed in the first round. ", 
        "Cat said she choked in the moment, completely forgot her game plan, and basically threw the flying knee out of panic", 
        "> she thought a flying knee would be an exciting way to start a fight with an elite grappler\n\nI think she let fans and critics get into her head about being a slow starter.  Tate probably won the first two rounds in their fight, and Nunes won the first round while almost getting a finish.\n\nInstead, she came out with this \"okay, let's do something unexpected right at the start\" mentality and it led to the ensuing exchange.  Against anyone but Rousey, she may have ended up with dominant position after that failed knee.", 
        "didn't she start a fight like that once before?", 
        "Nah that was Caol Uno.  /s\n\nBut seriously, I don't know.", 
        "Didn't Holly Holm say the same thing?", 
        "Dana will read this. Hide in Miesha's backyard until the dead of night. Sneak into her room and smash her knee caps to make her wait for Ronda.", 
        "I think it's more likely he steals her belt while she's in the shower", 
        "no one should have to do anything on rondas terms", 
        "I'm impressed by Miesha's fighter maturity. She's eloquent and thoughtful and while she might not have that Ronda marketability, she's so much more genuine. She's fought her way up the hard way and I for one am pleased she is where she is today.", 
        "Good, cause if she waits for Ronda, she'll never fight again as I don't think she's ever coming back.", 
        "Because that worked out so well for Holm.", 
        "I like that both her and Holly carry on as if Ronda isn't everything, she doesn't own the division nor the title ", 
        "It's refreshing to see a champ that's willing to defend their belt nowadays. ", 
        "\"I'd rather win than lose.\" ", 
        "Cote is coming into this fight as a sleeper as far as the WW rankings are concerned (I'd give him that #15 spot over Alves, who claimed he'd be moving to LW soon).  He's 5-1 since moving to WW and his only loss is to Wonderboy.\n\nDon't be surprised if Cote wins this.  I'm very curious as to where the oddsmakers set the initial line.", 
        "Agreed. He looked great against Burkman and Saunders.", 
        "I have Cote with the upset and I'm fairly confident in it. ", 
        "I agree. I think Cote is too big and too strong for Donald. Cote is a huge welterweight. I think he will take Donald down at will, and I don't think Donald will be able to submit him from his back. Cote by GNP in 2nd round.", 
        "Yeah he is a tough tough out.    I dont share your confidence but if the Odds are right there could be money to be made.", 
        "I love Donald, but I think Cote wins this fairly easily. He's too big, strong and powerful for Cerrone. This will be a great fight regardless though.", 
        "That's interesting, when the two were discussing the fight on Twitter, Cowboy said he can't travel to Canada for legal reasons. I guess they fixed that.", 
        "I wonder what changed", 
        "https://twitter.com/cowboycerrone/status/431271261965398017\n\nhe had assault charges pending or a conviction from either the boat incident or something else, seems to be cleared up", 
        "He's talked about this. He got into a boating related argument with some guy at a lake. Guy cut him off at the ramp or something like that. Guy kept mouthing off at him so he went over and fucked him up. Guy found out he was a famous fighter and a prolonged legal battle ensued. Cowboy said he was still dealing with it on a daily basis like 4 years after it happened. ", 
        "I mean, you don't get to fucking attack people because they gave you lip.\n\nHe's not getting sued because he's a fighter, he's getting sued because he was a violent asshole. I think Cowboy is probably a nice person in day to day life, but even only hearing his biased account of that incident on JRE he came off like a borderline psycho. ", 
        "Zuffa has that legal muscle.", 
        "C\u00f4t\u00e9 gonna put a hurtin on Cowboy. Fun match-up.", 
        "Love it, Cote has deserved a step up in competition after his last few performances.", 
        "C\u00f4t\u00e9 wanted a top 15 WW fight, pretty big step in competition. ", 
        "Seems odd having a former middleweight title contender fighting a former lightweight title contender at welterweight.", 
        "Cote is at 155 now? ", 
        "Cowboy moved up to Welterweight", 
        "The fight is at 170. ", 
        "I think it's Cowboy continuing his transition to WW", 
        "HE'S TRANSITIONING INTO A WEREWOLF???", 
        "Cowboy is at 170 now.", 
        "lets go hope cote wins it, this card looks great right now", 
        "Well I didn't see this one coming. Should be exciting though. ", 
        "Underwhelming, considering Cowboy just came off a great victory, but Cote is a veteran. A fun fight for us hardcores, because Cote is much more than where those bullshit rankings made by dummies put him at WW, the dude's only loss is to WONDERBOY.. at WW", 
        "I like this.   I like it very much.    I'll take Donald via UD.", 
        "kewl", 
        "Nice - and fighting again sooner than I thought he would. He's on a good roll. ", 
        "Is cerrone staying at 170? ", 
        "This card is shaping up which means I will road trip.", 
        "Frankly I'd rather seem the Means vs Cowboy fight rebooked but I guess we don't know exactly when Means will be cleared to come back  now that we know Means will be back soon.", 
        "Nice! I love this. Cote hasnt fought a name in awhile! ", 
        "Damn, they want to please the orangist crowd by sacrificing a French-speaking Catholic! Huge step up for Pat, although I'll be rooting for him like always.", 
        "Cerrone is massively out-sized here.", 
        "Cerrone will have a speed advantage  and a more diverse striking game he should fair well against Cote as long as he doesn't  get into a clinch fight", 
        "Very exciting match-up of styles... I like this one.", 
        "Hmmm ... seems like an easy fight for Cerrone, but a damn good one! I was hoping for Cerrone vs. Alves or Cerrone vs. Stun Gun. ", 
        "You realize he fought Silva for the belt at MW and was the first man to take him to three rounds before his knee blew out. Cote may have the strongest chin in the UFC as well. ", 
        "Cote is never an easy fight. He might not be the biggest name or have the best record but he is not an easy fight. Especially not considering he was a MW for ages and Cerrone has only had 1 fight at WW, where he didn't look that impressive.", 
        "Hm, Cote isnt an easy fight for anybody.   Power,  tough as nails and solid everywhere.\n\nI dont see it being an easy fight,  but a fight Cerrone can/should win.\n\n", 
        "But he isn't in the *new* EA UFC 2 game which is available now!\n\nYou can get the DELUXE Edition to get your 30 Ultimate Team packs!\n\n^(Patrick C\u00f4t\u00e9 still not included.)", 
        "Journeyman vs Journeyman. I like it.", 
        "Is Cote even in the UFC video game?  This is a huge step down for Cowboy.", 
        "Cowboy doesn't really seem like he cares who he fights. Oliviera was not exactly a big name either, Makdessi and so on. Regardless of outcome this is a win for the fans.\nEdit: didn't mean to imply Cote isn't a name, just that Cowboy doesn't care.", 
        "not at all, cote only recent loss is to wonderboy and he is the only one who didnt get KO recently", 
        "This just in: \n\nUFC 200 to be headlined by a 4-way ladder match where the lightweight belt will be suspended above the Octagon. \n\nParticipants will be RDA, McGregor, Nate Diaz and *reaches in to top hat full of random names* ...Court McGee ", 
        "Twist: Dana White is secretly trying to foster camaraderie between RDA, McGregor, and Diaz and suspends the belt so high they'll be forced to use teamwork to reach it. On the night of UFC 200, Big Papa Dana watches with a tear in his eye as his fighters put aside their differences to form a human tower.", 
        "rda has to actually turn up \"he'll think i'll be there, but i won't be there\" - rda", 
        "Hollywood Hogan will use his creative control to somehow end up in this fight despite the Gawker trial.", 
        "Court McGee lol", 
        "Missing a great opportunity for CM Punk's debut", 
        "BAH GAWD, HE'S HERE! HE'S FINALLY HERE! ", 
        "*Look in my eyyyyeeeeeessss, what do you see?*", 
        "Nate mounts Conor and rains down strikes, Herb is about to call it. Conor can't take much more, but then out of nowhere Pendred the GOAT storms the cage with a steel chair.", 
        "Just as Mcgregor is about to grab the belt Frankie's music hits", 
        "\"What on Earth?\"\n\n\"This is brilliant!\"\n\n\"Frankie Edgar, Mr. Money in the Bank! What the hell, can he do this?\"\n\n\"He's cashing in! He's cashing in!\"", 
        "TJ Grant is going to cash in his Money in the Bank contract and steal the title", 
        "This is my favourite pro-wrestling crossover comment I've ever seen here.", 
        "Still has one of those lucrative Promised Title Shot's.", 
        "I miss that fucker.", 
        "I want him back so bad :(", 
        "RDA telling it like it is. This fight makes no sense to anyone but the UFC brass", 
        "This fight makes no sense! (But everyone is going to watch it anyway... right guys?)", 
        "Has RDA ever specifically said \"I want to fight Conor.\"? Because it seems like he doesn't want Conor anywhere near the lightweight division. I mean when he got injured and Diaz was announced to replace him, RDA said that was a crappy match up. Not realizing that Diaz would finish Conor.", 
        "Fight makes no sense, but he ain't beating both of them on the same night.", 
        "It makes sense to both fighters and the UFC on a financial standpoint, but it is a huge risk.  If Conor loses again, I would have a hard time imagining him recovering from that.", 
        "I mean from a matchmakers standpoint it makes zero sense, Conor got murked by a guy who was drinking Mai Tais in Mexico 12 days before the fight. Nate will take the fight for another fat paycheck, and Conor's ego won't let him take the L and move on. ", 
        "Oh, trust me I would rather see him against Frankie.  But it is the \"smart\" move when it comes to financials, atleast in the short term.  If Conor loses, it's a long term problem.", 
        "If a rematch happens. Diaz and McGregor 3 should just be a good cop bad cop movie. Because that would make just as much sense ", 
        "I'd watch that. Who's directing and what's the plot? ", 
        "[UFC response to the criticisms](http://replygif.net/i/718.gif)", 
        "And the 1.5+ million people who will order it ", 
        "I'll order it just to see Diaz defend his title", 
        "King of the 145ers.", 
        "No one will ever care about the other belts, as long as the owner of the McGregor belt is other than McGregor!", 
        "They will keep rematching while GSP keeps attending until Mcgregor gets the victory and calls him out", 
        "GSP would fucking ruin Conor without breaking a sweat.", 
        "Never even thought of that but this is the only thing that makes sense right now", 
        "But only if he's *impressed with his performance* ", 
        "The fact that he's the belt holder .... and has to call people out speaks volumes ...", 
        "He's also the guy who pulled out and is trying to get his big red pantie night", 
        "So sad. Have a drink for the real champ tonight boys!", 
        "Nate was right, he didn't give a fuck about a belt, now nobody gives a fuck about a belt. ", 
        "\"y u scare Misser Magragoo? theses guys..\"", 
        "How much would it suck for RDA if he misses out on the money fight against McGregor and has to fight Khabib on a Fight Night card. 10x harder and 10x less money. ", 
        "The LW king has spoken feed him Conor.", 
        "RDA pissed because his payday is long gone and will probably not happen at this point. ", 
        "that's what he gets for pussyfooting ", 
        "To be fair, his foot was broken as fuck.", 
        "Probably shouldn't be kicking steel poles 2 weeks before a big fight", 
        "he is probably right", 
        "The more I thought about it, the more I came to the conclusion he is right. ... Not even joking or trolling.", 
        "true rda won against diaz easily", 
        "As opposed to fake RDA?", 
        "You can't compared at all... Nate didn't even make weight that fight. Obviously wasn't his best", 
        "Well, I think he'd beat Diaz again, but it'd probably go the distance like last time. Not sure if his body could hold up against Conor after that, though. We'll never know...\n\nBook it, Dana. RDA vs. Diaz/McGregor, UFC 200.", 
        "make it a triple threat match!", 
        "I'd prefer a handicap match. Nate Stockton slaps with the right, Conor hammering away with those powerful lefts. If RDA takes Conor down, Diaz just steps back and pisses himself laughing as Conor gets molested.", 
        "I don't get why they haven't booked RDA v McGregor again. The whole point of this exercise was Conor making history and holding two belts. If we're throwing the rulebook out of the window and booking fights based on novelty, why revisit Nate?", 
        "because Nate won", 
        "The whole thing fucked, the reason RDA Vs Conor isn't a thing is because Nate beat Conor and now Nate Vs RDA makes more sense. However, if they're just going to rematch Nate and Conor, then they might aswell rescheduled RDA Vs Conor, i don't fucking know anymore i'm done.\n", 
        "so you want Conor to get a title shot at a higher weight class while coming off a loss?", 
        "I don't want either, but out of the 2 the original bout makes more sense to me.", 
        ">  booking fights based on novelty, \n\nit was about most views and a payday.\n\nRDA was a big payday for everyone, Nate was one too that fans wanted and and I think Conor expected that he would win easily and it would help the hype machine. ", 
        "They are probably tired of trying to make these super fights and people backing out. (Aldo and RDA)\n\nFuck it, they dont want to fight, let Conor fight whoever. Everyone in the MMA scene just wants to see Conor fight everyone right now. Not going to happen. If you want to sell a BIG fight, let Conor overcome adversity. ", 
        "I never thought I would be so bummed about the main event of 200. Lawler/Woodely or Nate or Condit 2 (i'm happy), RDA/Nate (I'm happy), Meisha/Rousey 3 (i'm happy), Conor/Edgar (I'm super happy). But Nate/Conor 2, wtf is this shit? \n\nI think I'm ready to accept that UFC 200 is just another card and it won't be anything special.", 
        "It makes cents RDA, millions and millions and millions of cents", 
        "Move the needle, RDA.  This is the \"sports entertainment\" business now.  Re-brand yourself as \"The Brazilian Blur\" and start shit at weigh-ins and press conferences.\n\n", 
        "We gon be championship?", 
        "RDA vs Khabib/Ferguson winner at 200 is my bet ... ", 
        "this sub would make a terrible promoter.  this fight blew up the internet and did the most buys ever and was entertaining.  no shit they are not gonna go off what makes sense to the hardcore fans.  ", 
        "Make it happen", 
        "In other words, \"Pick me! Pick me!\"", 
        "i have a feeling mcgregor and dos anjos will meet sometime down the road. Frankie deserves his time over anyone else right now", 
        "RDA vs Conor McGregor and Nate Diaz for the co-main and main event for UFC 200 has been confirmed!", 
        "So? It's not a title shot, you're the highest up guy, it's not like Conor or Nate are the title holder, the reason theese guys are fighting is not to detirmine who is the best in the division.", 
        "He probably would", 
        "Now that is a fight that interests me", 
        "this is some funny trash talk lol", 
        "It makes some sense later but the hype needs to be rebuilt. \n\nStyle wise Nate was one of the worst picks IMO. \nLonger reach was key, Conor really relies on his reach and timing/power to connect first or last as he moves in and out of range.  Nate had a longer reach and the result was a lot of timing issues. I would still be interested in an RDA fight because all those close calls against nate would have connected against RDA.\nThe lefty thing is also a factor since Nate had zero problem with that area. \n\nI think RDA wins on the ground but its not the same fight stylistically.", 
        "It does make no sense. Why are we rematching a straightforward non-title fight?", 
        "Like what is said with all these Bellator freak fights: \"u would watch it tho\". That's all people care about.", 
        "Finally , someone besides us, with our superior intellectual intelligence over here on r/mma speaks the truth.", 
        "He probably would and all lol!", 
        "I just want to see Khabib . Thats all.", 
        "This is a pretty big risk they're taking just to try and get Conor to save face.", 
        "RDA fucked his chance at fighting CM up now he's mad", 
        "Punk would get murdered bro.", 
        "[**@UFCONFOX**](https://twitter.com/UFCONFOX):\n>[2016-03-18 21:31:52 UTC](https://twitter.com/UFCONFOX/status/710941817299054593)\n\n>ICYMI: Sources confirm Conor McGregor vs. Nate Diaz 2 verbally agreed for UFC 200 [*foxsports.com*](http://www.foxsports.com/ufc/story/ufc-conor-mcgregor-nate-diaz-2-rematch-verbally-agreed-ufc-200-sources-031816?cmpid=tsmtw:fscom:ufconfox) [#UFC](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23UFC) [*pic.twitter.com*](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/Cd3F0MYUkAAHVMR.jpg) [^[Imgur]](http://i.imgur.com/0Vh0bgU.jpg)\n\n[**@RdosAnjosMMA**](https://twitter.com/RdosAnjosMMA):\n>[2016-03-18 21:56:46 UTC](https://twitter.com/RdosAnjosMMA/status/710948082096050177)\n\n>[@UFCONFOX](https://twitter.com/UFCONFOX) Mcgregor vs Diaz 2 make no sense, I would beat theses 2 guys on the same night\n\n----\n\n[^[Mistake?]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Error%20Report&message=/4b0fwr%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)\n[^[Suggestion]](/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&subject=Suggestion)\n[^[FAQ]](/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)\n[^[Code]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster)\n[^[Issues]](https://github.com/joealcorn/TweetPoster/issues)\n", 
        "Pains me to say it but his statement is plausible to me lol", 
        "And that's why it makes sense. Dudes need to realize UFC is not a tournament but an entertainment business.", 
        "Yeah I can't see McGregor being able to withstand the RDA war machine. ", 
        "More like he'd pull out of the fight the day before.", 
        "As much as i hate to say it. He isnt wrong", 
        "Although I agree the fight makes no sense, RDA's attempts at getting the UFC to give him another money fight forafter pulling out are kinda pathetic.", 
        "Why?", 
        "Yeah, pathetic because he would not fight with a broken foot. If Conor had that injury he would've pulled out too.", 
        "It's not a matter of being right to pull out or not, he jeopardized an entire card 10 days before it went live because he did not train safely. He's free to train the way he wants, but he shouldn't be throwing shots at 2 guys that did save that ppv because he was having intensive sessions so close to the fight. Since nate won, now Nate's a good draw and he wants the fight with him, otherwise he wouldn't give 2 shits about it. He should stay a bit humble and accept whatever the ufc offers him and not comment on what the ufc might do with 2 fighters that probably aren't even going to fight him for that belt.", 
        "Make perfect sense and no he wouldn't. ", 
        "He would."
    ]
}